Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore & Harry Potter: Wizards Unite & Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Aberforth Dumbledore is nominated for featured article. Feel free to review this article's entry.
Aberforth Dumbledore
Biographical information
Born
Between 1 September 1883 and 31 August 1884[1]
Blood status
Half-blood[2]
Nationality
British or Irish[3]
Also known as
Ab[4]
Physical information
Species
Human[5]
Gender
Male[5]
Eye colour
Bright blue[6]
Relationship information
Family members
Percival Dumbledore (father) †[7]
Kendra Dumbledore (mother) †[7]
Albus Dumbledore (brother) †[5]
Ariana Dumbledore (sister) †[7]
Aurelius Dumbledore (alleged brother)
Honoria (aunt)[8]
Mr Dumbledore (paternal great-great-grandfather) †[9]
Dumbledore family
Magical characteristics
Wand
Unknown length, wood and core[6]
Patronus
Goat[6]
Affiliation
Occupation
Owner and Barman of the Hog's Head Inn[6]
Loyalty
Dumbledore family[7]
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry[10]
Hog's Head Inn[6]
Order of the Phoenix[11]
[Source]
"My own brother, Aberforth, was prosecuted for practising inappropriate charms on a goat. It was all over the papers, but did Aberforth hide? No, he did not! He held his head high and went about his business as usual! Of course, I'm not entirely sure he can read, so that may not have been bravery..."
— Aberforth's unconventional personality[src]
Aberforth Dumbledore (b. 1883/1884) was a half-blood wizard, the second son of Percival and Kendra Dumbledore, younger brother of Albus, and older brother of Ariana. He attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry between 1895 and 1902. His father — who had been sentenced to prison for attacking three Muggles — died in Azkaban when Aberforth was young, and his mother and sister were later accidentally killed. Aberforth blamed his brother Albus for the death of their sister, Ariana and thus their relationship was rather strained.
Aberforth was the owner and barman of the Hog's Head Inn in Hogsmeade, and was a member of the original Order of the Phoenix during the First Wizarding War. In 1998, he assisted Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger from a distance during their Horcrux hunt, sending the House-elf Dobby to help them escape from Malfoy Manor. He later allowed them to use a secret tunnel that connected the Hog's Head to Hogwarts when the trio arrived in Hogsmeade. He subsequently fought in the Battle of Hogwarts and survived the Second Wizarding War. He continued to live in Hogsmeade, tending to his goats.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life (1884-1891)
1.2 Tragedy (1891-1899)
1.3 Hog's Head Inn Barman (Post 1899-?)
1.3.1 First Wizarding War
1.3.2 Between the wars
1.3.3 Second Wizarding War
1.3.4 After the war
1.3.5 The Calamity
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Relationships
5.1 Parents
5.2 Ariana Dumbledore
5.3 Albus Dumbledore
5.4 Gellert Grindelwald
5.5 Harry Potter
5.6 Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger
5.7 Dobby
5.8 Order of the Phoenix members
6 Etymology
7 Behind the scenes
8 Appearances
9 Notes and references
Biography
Early life (1884-1891)
"They were not alike; Aberforth was never bookish and, unlike Albus, preferred to settle arguments by duelling rather than through reasoned discussion. In fairness to Aberforth, it must be admitted that living in Albus's shadow cannot have been an altogether comfortable experience."
— Description of the Dumbledore brothers[src]
Aberforth was the middle child of Percival and Kendra Dumbledore, younger brother to Albus and older brother to Ariana[7]. The family lived in Mould-on-the-Wold,[12] and Aberforth's favourite tale while growing up was Grumble the Grubby Goat.[8] The Dumbledore family was traumatised when Ariana, then six years old, was attacked by three Muggle boys who had seen her performing magic.
Godric's Hollow where Aberforth and his family moved after the imprisonment of his father
The attack left Ariana half-insane and unable to control her magic. Their father cursed the boys in retaliation, and was arrested for it. He did not reveal to the authorities the reason for his attack, as Ariana would have been taken from the family as a threat to the Statute of Secrecy and placed in St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries permanently. Percival was imprisoned in Azkaban, and Kendra moved the family to Godric's Hollow, putting out a story that Ariana was ill and needed to remain at home.[6] This story led to the assumption that Ariana was a Squib.[2]
Aberforth attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry between 1895 and 1902.[13] Unlike Albus, Aberforth preferred to solve his differences by duelling, rather than dialogue. He was in Albus's shadow, as his brother was an extraordinarily talented and academic Wizard and even despite his great duelling talent, he was still incomparable to Albus in the field he specialised in.[7]
Tragedy (1891-1899)
"I could get her to eat when she wouldn't do it for my mother, I could calm her down, when she was in one of her rages, and when she was quiet, she used to help me feed the goats."
— Aberforth and his relationship with his sister[src]
Aberforth's brother Albus with his friend Gellert Grindelwald
Aberforth was Ariana's favourite sibling, and he took part responsibility of taking care of her. However, he was not at home when Ariana lost control of her magic and accidentally killed their mother. Following his mother's passing, Aberforth wanted to leave school and take over the care of his sister, but Albus would not allow it. Albus wanted his younger brother to complete his education at Hogwarts, although he bitterly resented having to abandon his grand plans.[6] By this time, Aberforth was described as a "wayward" young man, known to chuck goat dung at their neighbours and inclined to get into duels with those he had disagreements with.[14]
When Gellert Grindelwald came to Godric's Hollow, he and Albus instantly struck up a friendship, together dreaming of finding the Deathly Hallows and leading a revolution that would make Muggles subservient to wizards. Upon learning of his elder brother's ambitions, Aberforth was disgusted by such a plan, but he was also concerned as Ariana would have to be involved. When it was time for Aberforth to return to Hogwarts, he decided to finally confront Albus and Grindelwald on the impossibility of such a scheme and angrily pointed out on Albus's neglect of Ariana and that he could not be the heroic leader of the revolution with Ariana in tow, which Albus later said to have "brought him back to reality" despite not wanting to hear the truth of the words Aberforth shouted at him.
Grindelwald became furious and used the Cruciatus Curse on Aberforth. Albus tried to protect his brother and a three-way duel broke out. While the three battled, Ariana tried to help her brother, but a stray curse from one of them hit Ariana, killing her.[6] Aberforth was devastated by the death of the younger sister he and his mother spent years caring for and furiously blamed Albus for Ariana's death, going as far as to physically assault his brother at their sister's funeral and actually breaking Albus's nose, shouting that Ariana's death was his fault.[2] He didn't forgive his brother and continued to resent him for years, despite Albus's immense feelings of regret, of which Aberforth did not know until Harry revealed it to him, which allowed Aberforth to finally forgive his brother.[6]
Hog's Head Inn Barman (Post 1899-?)
The original Order that Aberforth was a member of
At some point, Aberforth became the barman of the Hog's Head Inn in Hogsmeade village. When Tom Riddle returned to Hogwarts to apply for the Defence Against the Dark Arts post, Albus revealed that one of 'the local barmen', presumably Aberforth himself, told him about Riddle's followers awaiting him in the Hog's Head.[15] Later, when the First Wizarding War broke out, Aberforth joined the Order of the Phoenix, opposing Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters.[11]
First Wizarding War
Sometime around 1975, Mundungus Fletcher was banned from Hog's Head for life. Sirius Black later noted that Aberforth had 'a good memory' for whom he had thrown out of his tavern.[16]
In 1980, Albus visited the Hog's Head to interview Sybill Trelawney for the position of Divination professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Severus Snape, then a Death Eater, overheard part of Trelawney's prophecy about Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort. Snape was unable to hear its entirety, however, as Aberforth caught him eavesdropping and threw him out.[17][18]
Between the wars
Aberforth as the barman for the Hog's Head between the wars
Around 1982, Aberforth was prosecuted by the Wizengamot for "using inappropriate charms on a goat," causing a "minor scandal", widely reported in the papers. According to his brother, Aberforth did not let the gossip get him down or force him into hiding; but Albus also jokingly claimed, as an alternative explanation, not to be completely sure Aberforth could read.[5]
During the 1988–1989 school year, Jacob's sibling visited Hog's Head Inn to ask about Mundungus Fletcher. Aberforth expressed his hatred towards Fletcher but didn't give them his whereabouts. He then presented them a letter from Albus, which was said to be given to them should they appear in Hog's Head looking lost.[19]
Second Wizarding War
Harry Potter: "It's... he left me a job."
Aberforth: "Did he now? Nice job, I hope? Pleasant? Easy? Sort of thing you'd expect an unqualified wizard kid to be able to do without over-stretching themselves?"
Harry Potter: "I — it's not easy, no."
— Aberforth regarding the task his brother left to Harry Potter[src]
Dumbledore's Army gathering in the Hog's Head
In 1995, Harry Potter and a large number of students arrived in the Hog's Head to discuss learning Defence Against the Dark Arts from Harry. This was an illegal defence group, as Dolores Umbridge forbid all group activities. Aberforth served the large group Butterbeer, even though some of the group considered ordering Firewhisky.[20] Mundungus Fletcher was also present acting as an informant for the Order of the Phoenix.
In 1996, Aberforth met with Mundungus outside the Three Broomsticks Inn, who appeared to be selling stolen goods from 12 Grimmauld Place to him; one of those items was Sirius Black's two-way mirror. The exchange was observed by Harry Potter, who attempted to confront Mundungus following Aberforth's departure.[21]
The funeral of his older brother, Albus Dumbledore
In 1997, the Battle of the Astronomy Tower took place at Hogwarts, culminating with the death of Albus Dumbledore at the hands of Severus Snape who (although this was unknown to everyone else at the time besides the deceased Dumbledore) was working under Albus's orders. A great number of people attended his funeral, including Aberforth, Hogwarts students, professors, old friends, Hogsmeade residents, Order of the Phoenix members and Ministry of Magic officials.[22] After his brother's death, Aberforth had no family left.
The next year, since Dumbledore had died and could not protect the school from Death Eaters, Lord Voldemort managed to take over Hogwarts. Snape became Headmaster, and Alecto and Amycus Carrow, two Death Eaters, became Deputy Headmaster and Deputy Headmistress. The Carrows enjoyed punishing students, and were cruel and sadistic. They used their power to torture the students who opposed them. Aberforth's pub was used as passageway into Hogwarts to the Room of Requirement, he supplied the students in hiding with food and water.[6]
Aberforth looking out of the mirror fragment
Aberforth came into possession of one fragment of the two way mirror, using it to watch over Harry, just as his brother had done, through the other half. Harry was unaware of the details, but occasionally looked at the mirror, thinking the eyes might belong to Albus.[6] When Harry desperately requested help from the mirror whilst trapped at Malfoy Manor, Aberforth sent Dobby to the rescue.[23] He was sad to learn the house-elf died in action.[6]
Deciding to look for the next of Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes in the Death Eater-controlled Hogwarts Castle, Harry, Hermione, and Ron Apparated into Hogsmeade village, setting off a Caterwauling Charm that alerted Death Eaters to their arrival. As they were hidden under the Invisibility Cloak, the Death Eaters decided to send Dementors to find Harry. The Dementors, sensing fear, rapidly closed in, and Harry cast a Patronus Charm to repel them. A door creaked open behind, and Aberforth waved the trio in. Aberforth then convinced the Death Eaters that he set off the alarm by letting his cat out, and it was his goat Patronus, not Harry's stag, that they actually saw.[6]
Harry recognised the man as Aberforth Dumbledore, Albus' younger brother. Aberforth wanted them to escape the village the next morning, believing the Order of the Phoenix finished, Voldemort had already won the war, and those still fighting were only deluding themselves. When Harry refused, saying he must complete Dumbledore's mission, Aberforth berated Harry for following his brother, and asked if he knew the entire truth about him. Harry, already doubting Dumbledore's intentions, was unable to respond. With little prodding, Aberforth indicated he knew Rita Skeeter's book, and related the true story about their childhood and was shocked when Harry told him afterwards of Albus taking the Drink of Despair, which revealed how much he still suffered great remorse for his past actions.[6]
The trio talking with Aberforth before the Battle of Hogwarts
Despite hearing of Dumbledore's past, Harry intended to complete Dumbledore's mission, with or without Aberforth's help to get inside Hogwarts. While slowly forgiving his late brother after learning of Albus's remorse from Harry, Aberforth bowed to the inevitable and addressed Ariana's portrait, and she disappeared down a long, dark tunnel, soon returning with another figure; Neville Longbottom. Neville led the three back to the Room of Requirement, and alerted the Order of the Phoenix that Harry had arrived at the school. The Hog's Head then became the main transportation hub for the outgoing students and the incoming Order members prior to the Battle of Hogwarts through a secret passageway behind a portrait of his sister Ariana.[4][24]
Aberforth fighting in the final battle along with the other defenders of Hogwarts
Aberforth fought in the battle; he entered Hogwarts to complain to Harry about how hundreds of evacuating students were thundering through his pub, and that they should have kept some Slytherin students as hostage against parenting Death Eaters, to which Harry countered that it would not stop Voldemort and that Albus would never do it. Although he had already forgiven his brother, Aberforth sneered at the latter theory before leaving to defend the castle.[10] During the battle, he offered encouragement to Ginny when she fought some Death Eaters. When Tonks asks if he has seen Remus, Aberforth replied that he was last seen duelling Dolohov.[10] In the renewed battle, Aberforth stunned Rookwood as he headed into the Great Hall.[25]
After the war
Aberforth with Dean and Seamus after the battle
Aberforth survived the final battle of the Second Wizarding War. After the battle, he talked with Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan while in the Great Hall.[26] He later returned to his former life, "still at the Hog's Head, playing with his goats."[27]
The Calamity
During the Calamity, Aberforth came across volunteers from the SOS Task Force in Hogsmeade, and showed them his version of the Proficiency Charm.
Physical appearance
"The barman grunted. Harry approached him, looking up into the face, trying to see past the long, stringy, wiry grey hair and beard. He wore spectacles. Behind the dirty lenses, the eyes were a piercing, brilliant blue."
— Description of Aberforth[src]
Aberforth Dumbledore's physical appearance
Aberforth Dumbledore was tall and thin, with a great deal of long, stringy grey hair and beard. His eyes were of a brilliant, soul-piercing shade of blue, and usually hidden behind the dirty lenses of his spectacles. While they carried some noticeable brotherly resemblance, his more casual attire and often grumpy disposition made him appear considerably less conspicuous than Albus. He often wore an apron.[6]
Personality and traits
Ron Weasley: "The silver doe. Was that you too?... Someone sent a doe Patronus to us!"
Aberforth: "Brains like that, you could be a Death Eater, son. Haven't I just proven my Patronus is a goat?"
— Aberforth mocking Ron Weasley[src]
Aberforth was regarded by most people who were familiar with him as being odd and gruff. Alastor Moody, who met him at the taking of the photo of the original Order, only described him as a "strange bloke".[11] He had a curious obsession with goats, which was seemed by some to be an inappropriate affection,[5] and dealt with a great many dodgy customers at the Hog's Head Inn.[11] He also had a long memory; he once placed a lifetime ban from the Hog's Head on Mundungus Fletcher for offending him.[16] Aberforth had a sharp wit and was a highly talented duellist, though he had no interest in academic matters. It is suggested that Aberforth was illiterate, hence why he did not let the scandal of him practising inappropriate charms on a goat upset him. Despite not being as intelligent as his brother, he seemed to know what Horcruxes were when told about the hunt, suggesting a greater intelligence than he let on. He was a very terse person, commenting that the trio were being "Bloody Fools".[6][10]
Aberforth generally seemed cynical and bad-tempered, such as when he sarcastically pointed out to Harry Potter how little Albus Dumbledore had really told him even while putting an enormous responsibility on his shoulders. However, despite this, Aberforth proved himself worthy of being a Gryffindor, displaying an astonishing amount of bravery and remarkable amount of morality that held firm even when it came to his family despite his cynical and rough personality, with Albus describing Aberforth as ultimately an infinitely better man than he ever was. For example, although it was Muggles who traumatised his sister, Aberforth never discriminated against them and found the thought of Albus and Grindelwald's quest for Muggle domination as being absolutely disgusting, not only because of the danger Ariana and himself would be under but also because of the overall amount of damage that would be caused by such quest, even going as far as to not hesitate to duel both of them at once, despite knowing fully well they were superior duelists who he would certainly not stand a chance against, with his magic seemingly being amplified by the anger and determination he felt to hold them at bay, a feat made even more impressive by the fact that he previously had been subjected to the Cruciatus Curse by Grindelwald.
In addition, Aberforth would join the Order of the Phoenix despite it being led by the older brother who he so disliked for his glory-seeking, and blaming him for their younger sister's tragic death, indicating he was willing to overcome his grudge towards his brother to fight for the whole wizarding world, further showing his morality. Although he never forgave Albus for years, Aberforth still considered Albus his brother and maintained contact with him, with their relationship being deemed cordial by Elphias Doge, and Aberforth joined the Order of the Phoenix, which Albus founded and led, and attended Albus's funeral. Also, in spite of claiming earlier that "You-Know-Who's won, it's over, and anyone who's pretending different's kidding themselves" and also showing still his resentment of Albus's true nature, Aberforth was shocked into silence as he contemplated what Harry had revealed: that Albus had never forgiven himself for Ariana's death and was always tortured by the fact that he was responsible for it. Ultimately forgiving his brother, Aberforth then fought bravely and selflessly at the Battle of Hogwarts, which may be out of a desire to honour his older brother's memory by protecting the school Albus had led for so long, possibly sparked by the regret of never even considering Albus had regretted Ariana's death and also that he never managed to reconcile with his brother. In addition, he appeared to consider the possibility that his brother would never resort to having Slytherin students held as ransom against the Death Eaters before sneering at the idea. His unwillingly courageous nature shows itself in one of his last conversations with Harry; after Harry thanked him for saving his and his friends' lives twice, Aberforth gruffly retorted, "Look after 'em, then. I might not be able to save 'em a third time".[6]
Aberforth was rather willing to use underhanded tactics against his foes, as he suggested to Harry to hold Slytherin students hostage against their parents who also served as Death Eaters.[10]
Magical abilities and skills
Aberforth's goat Patronus
Though he did not have his brother Albus' prestigious gifts, Aberforth was nonetheless a very talented and powerful wizard in his own right, given his participation in and subsequent survival of the First and Second Wizarding Wars, the latter of which included the legendary Battle of Hogwarts.
Charms: Aberforth Dumbledore once used a charm to keep a goat clean and its horns curly. Though he was prosecuted because that charm was considered inappropriate, it was still a testament of sorts to his being skilled in charms.[5] Aberforth was also able to conjure a corporeal Patronus, which is incredibly advanced and powerful magic as well as proof of superior magical ability. His Patronus took the corporeal form of a goat.[6]
Duelling: During his school years, Aberforth was said to prefer to settle things by duelling instead of negotiating,[7] which shows that, even as a student, he was already an active and experienced duelist, although his brother was still superior to him, noted to have the ability to put Aberforth in his place had he wanted to. Despite this, by the age of fifteen, his duelling skills were already sufficient to stand his ground in the three-way duel between himself, Albus, and Gellert Grindelwald when they were teenagers, both of whom eventually became arguably the most powerful duellists to ever live.[6] Aberforth also noted the reason he did not face Patricia Rakepick, an infamously powerful individual, in battle when she came to his pub was not because he was afraid of facing her but because she would have disappeared without any traces for him to inform the Auror Office about, showing he was assured of his ability to at least fight against the dark witch long enough for reinforcements to come. During the Battle of Hogwarts he fought courageously and defeated the very skilled Death Eater Augustus Rookwood[10] and emerged as one of the survivors,[26][27] showing him to have been remarkably proficient in martial magic to have survived such a bloody battle.
Legilimency (possibly): Harry once described him as having the same piercing look as his brother.[6] Given that Albus usually had this look when performing Legilimency, it's possible that Aberforth did the same.
Relationships
Parents
Percival Dumbledore, his father
Aberforth's relationship with his parents is not very well known. His father was imprisoned in Azkaban after he used illegal spells on three Muggle boys who attacked Ariana. Because of this, it's likely that, like Albus, Aberforth did not hold Percival in high regard. His mother was described as a good woman, but Aberforth knew her secretive nature and bitterly described himself and Albus as having learned lies and secrets from her. Nevertheless, when Kendra was accidentally killed by Ariana, Aberforth's bitterness did not prevent him from being devastated by her death, judging from the grief and sadness with which he described the event.[6]
Kendra Dumbledore, his mother
Ariana Dumbledore
"I was her favourite... She liked me best."
— Aberforth regarding his little sister[src]
Aberforth's portrait of Ariana
Aberforth Dumbledore was Ariana Dumbledore's older brother. She seemed to have preferred him rather than their eldest brother, Albus Dumbledore. After her attack, Aberforth was the only one who could calm her down when she flew into a rage, something even their mother could not always accomplish. The two often fed goats together in their free time. Aberforth was not present when Ariana lost control of her magic and accidentally killed their mother. He believed that he would have been able to prevent the death of his mother. After the unfortunate incident, he wanted to take care of Ariana, but their older brother Albus insisted that Aberforth complete his education at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry first.
Soon after, Albus became friends with Gellert Grindelwald, and Aberforth stepped in when they began making plans for world domination and Muggle subjugation, pointing out that Ariana was in no state to be dragged along with them. This resulted in a three-way duel between Ariana's brothers and Grindelwald. Ariana tried to interfere, and was inadvertently killed by one of them, which devastated Aberforth and caused an unending rift between him and Albus. It is unknown who actually cast the spell which led to her death. At Ariana's funeral, Aberforth broke his brother's nose and shouted at him that her death was all his fault. Long after Ariana's death, Aberforth continued to keep a portrait of his late sister in the Hog's Head Inn, symbolising his affection for her. It concealed a secret passage to the Room of Requirement in Hogwarts Castle.[6]
Albus Dumbledore
Dumbledore: "Then if I were to go to the Hog's Head tonight, I would not find a group of them — Nott, Rosier, Mulciber, Dolohov — awaiting your return?..."
Tom Riddle: "You are omniscient as ever, Dumbledore."
Dumbledore: "Oh no, merely friendly with the local barmen."
— Dumbledore talking about his brother Aberforth[src]
Albus Dumbledore, Aberforth's brother
Aberforth and his brother had a strained, often acrimonious, relationship most of their lives. Aberforth was resentful and bitter about the fact that he was living under Albus's shadow due to Albus's superior magical capabilities and spent most of his time caring for his sick younger sister, Ariana. After the death of Kendra Dumbledore, Albus was left to care for his brother and sister and the two remained as strained as ever, as while Albus insisted that Aberforth complete his education, Aberforth disliked the way Albus was treating Ariana. When Albus and his friend, Gellert Grindelwald, began planning to start a revolution, Aberforth and Albus grew even more estranged as Aberforth was disgusted by his older brother's ambitions and this soon escalates to the point that Aberforth angrily confronted Albus and bluntly told him that Ariana would not be accompanying and his plans are impossible, resulting in Grindelwald initiating a duel that resulted in Ariana's death, which finally caused Albus and Aberforth to become fully estranged, as Aberforth felt extreme amount of anger at Albus and he fully blamed him for Ariana's death,[6] shouting at him at Ariana's funeral and breaking his nose.[2] In his later years, Albus became the longest and most noted Headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was considered to be the greatest wizard of all time. During this time, the two had relatively little contact, although Aberforth and Albus had managed to establish a cordial relationship according to Elphias Doge and Aberforth did join the original Order of the Phoenix during the First Wizarding War,[11] as well as attending his brother's funeral in 1997.[22]
Although Albus initially was resentful towards Aberforth for dragging him down from fame and glory with the responsibility of being head of the family, Albus loved his brother dearly, and came to respect and admire him greatly for his devotion to Ariana.[6] However, despite Albus being known to feel sadness for his estrangement with his younger brother, he never attempted to change Aberforth's opinions of him, likely as he recognised that he fully deserved Aberforth's resentment and accepted it as punishment for his part in the tragic death of Ariana. But he did have a desire to reconcile with Aberforth, as whenever he looked at the Mirror of Erised, he would see Aberforth reconciled with him. While he still bitterly resented Albus even after the death of his older brother, Aberforth eventually forgave his late brother after Harry explained Albus' drinking of the Drink of Despair, and fought in the defence of his brother's school, the first of the Hogsmeade residents to do so.
Gellert Grindelwald
Gellert Grindelwald
Aberforth detested Gellert Grindelwald immensely. Grindelwald was Albus's friend after Hogwarts. While Aberforth was taking care of Ariana, Albus and Grindelwald were planning to enslave the Muggles. As the two boys were planning to travel around the world, they also planned to take Ariana with them. Aberforth opposed them, telling them that they were being irresponsible and that he would be able to take care of Ariana once more. Grindelwald became very angry and used the Cruciatus Curse on Aberforth; Albus then defended his brother and the three boys began to duel. None of the three ever knew who had cast the fatal spell, but by the end of the duel, Ariana lay dead on the floor. Grindelwald immediately fled the country; the two brothers both lived the rest of their lives with the fear that they had cast the spell that killed their sister. Aberforth retained bitter feelings towards Grindelwald for many years after their fateful encounter, and when he recounted the events that led to his sister's death Harry noted the "positively dangerous" look that came over his face when Grindelwald's name was mentioned.[6]
Harry Potter
Harry Potter: "We're not leaving. We need to get into Hogwarts."
Aberforth: "Don't be stupid, boy."
Harry Potter: "We've got to."
Aberforth: "What you've got to do, is to get as far from here as from here as you can."
— Harry Potter to Aberforth Dumbledore[src]
Harry Potter
Aberforth became friends with Harry Potter before the Battle of Hogwarts. Aberforth had previously helped Harry, Ron and Hermione while they were captured by Bellatrix Lestrange and other Death Eaters at Malfoy Manor.[23] Aberforth's possession of one of the two-way mirrors became a great help to Harry and his companions.[6] It can be said that if Aberforth did not have the mirror and had not sent Dobby to the Trio's aid then Harry and his friends would have most likely died at Malfoy Manor.[23]
Aberforth later saved Harry, Ron and Hermione again after they accidentally activated a Caterwauling Charm when apparating into Hogsmeade, and Harry was grateful to Aberforth afterwards for saving their lives twice. Aberforth narrated to Harry the story of his early life. Harry pitied him, and was almost devastated when he heard it all, although he then revealed the remorse which his brother Albus suffered over his past actions, prompting Aberforth to finally forgive his late brother. Harry also argued with Aberforth when he told Harry to leave Hogsmeade, in order to save his own skin. However, they later both fought at the Battle of Hogwarts and survived the war. It is conceivable that they remained in contact afterwards.[6]
Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger
Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger
Aberforth met Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in 1998, before the Battle of Hogwarts. As Ron and Hermione were Harry's friends, they visited Hogsmeade in order to get into Hogwarts. Aberforth helped them, while telling them the story of his family life. Ron and Hermione were both shocked and highly sympathetic to his plight. They later fought at the Battle of Hogwarts with Aberforth and they all survived the war. It is possible that they remained in contact later on.[6]
Dobby
Aberforth Dumbledore: "Thought he'd be with you. Where've you left him?"
Harry Potter: "He's dead. Bellatrix Lestrange killed him."
Aberforth Dumbledore: "I'm sorry to hear it. I liked that elf."
— Aberforth and Harry Potter discussing Dobby's fate[src]
Dobby
Over the course of his employment at Hogwarts, Dobby, a house-elf, became close friends with Aberforth, and spent much time at Aberforth's home in Hogsmeade, getting to and from the school through a secret tunnel. As Aberforth was an old and grumpy person, he did not have a good relationship with many people. However, Aberforth himself stated that he liked Dobby and was sad about his death.
In 1998, Harry Potter and his friends were captured by Snatchers and imprisoned at the Malfoy Manor cellar. Harry asked for help while looking at a two-way mirror; Aberforth had the other mirror. He sent Dobby to rescue them; the house-elf did so, but was killed by Bellatrix Lestrange.[6]
Order of the Phoenix members
The original Order of the Phoenix
Although he had a good relationship with some members of the Order of the Phoenix, Aberforth was described as a "strange bloke" by Alastor Moody.[11] He also fought in the Battle of Hogwarts in 1998. Aberforth seemed to know Remus Lupin, Nymphadora Tonks and Fred and George Weasley. He saw Lupin fighting with Antonin Dolohov and he told Tonks so. He met many allies of the Order during the Battle of Hogwarts, when many people were getting into Hogwarts through a portrait-hole in a room of his pub.[10]
Aberforth had a mixed relationship with Mundungus Fletcher. While Aberforth banned Mundungus for life from the bar for offending him,[16] the two remained in touch, with Mundungus selling stolen goods to Aberforth.[21]
He did not seem to have a very high opinion of Elphias Doge for his hero worshipping Albus both as students and later in life.
Etymology
In Welsh, Aberforth means "from the river".[28] Also, in Old English, Aber means "the river mouth", and would look like Æbber when written in Old English.
Dumbledore is Old English for "bumblebee". When breaking down the etymology of Dumbledore, dora is the Old English word for humble-bee, which became dore or dorre in Middle English.
Behind the scenes
Aberforth Dumbledore as he appears in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Aberforth appears briefly in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix played by Jim McManus, and is portrayed by Ciarán Hinds in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
Though in the books his Patronus is a goat, in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, he produces a non-corporeal Patronus while fending off hundreds of Dementors.
The character first appeared as the innkeeper at the Hog's Head in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, though he was not revealed to be Aberforth in the books until the final instalment. Many fans, however, made the connection through the hints provided. When asked about the various hints, Harry Potter series author J. K. Rowling at first coyly stated "I was quite proud of that clue," but then admitted "Well yes, obviously."[29]
In a 2005 interview, when asked who her favourite member of the Order of the Phoenix was, J. K. Rowling stated that "...there is one member of the Order of the Phoenix that you have not yet met properly and you will, well, you know that they are a member, but you haven't really met them properly yet and you will meet them in seven, so I am looking forward to that." It is likely that Rowling was referring to Aberforth, as readers had "met" him as the owner of the Hog's Head, but at the time did not yet know him for who he was.[30]
In response to Twitter user Tasha Florentz-Clift's comment ""It does not do to dwell on goats and forget to live." J.K. @jk_rowling #AddGoatRuinAQuote", J.K. Rowling stated "That just turns Albus's motto into Aberforth's."
It has been reported that Richard Coyle will be playing Aberforth in his late 40s in Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore, but this has yet to be officially confirmed by anyone involved with the project.[31]
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 30 images related to Aberforth Dumbledore.
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (video game)
Pottermore
Wizarding World
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter Trading Card Game (Possible appearance)[32]
Harry Potter: The Character Vault (Appears in concept artwork)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Notes and references
↑ His brother, Albus, was born in 1881. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows states that Aberforth entered Hogwarts three years after his brother, indicating a birth year of 1883-1884.
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 8 (The Wedding)
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
4.0 4.1 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 29 (The Lost Diadem)
↑
5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 24 (Rita Skeeter's Scoop)
↑
6.00 6.01 6.02 6.03 6.04 6.05 6.06 6.07 6.08 6.09 6.10 6.11 6.12 6.13 6.14 6.15 6.16 6.17 6.18 6.19 6.20 6.21 6.22 6.23 6.24 6.25 6.26 6.27 6.28 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 28 (The Missing Mirror)
↑
7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 2 (In Memoriam)
↑
8.0 8.1 The Tales of Beedle the Bard
↑ Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay, Scene 28
↑
10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 10.4 10.5 10.6 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 31 (The Battle of Hogwarts)
↑
11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 11.4 11.5 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 9 (The Woes of Mrs Weasley)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 11 (The Bribe)
↑ Based on a birthdate of 1884, Aberforth would have attended Hogwarts between these dates, starting at age eleven and continuing for seven years.
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 18 (The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore)
↑ Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 20 (Lord Voldemort's Request)
↑
16.0 16.1 16.2 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 17 (Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 37 (The Lost Prophecy)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 33 (The Prince's Tale)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 17 (Broken Bonds)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 16 (In The Hog's Head)
↑
21.0 21.1 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 12 (Silver and Opals)
↑
22.0 22.1 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 30 (The White Tomb)
↑
23.0 23.1 23.2 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 23 (Malfoy Manor)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 30 (The Sacking of Severus Snape)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 36 (The Flaw in the Plan)
↑
26.0 26.1 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
↑
27.0 27.1 30 July 2007 Bloomsbury Webchat with J.K. Rowling
↑ MuggleNet: Name Origins
↑ Edinburgh Book Festival Interview
↑ Edinburgh "cub reporter" Press Conference, available via Accio Quote!
↑ Confirmed: Richard Coyle has been cast as Aberforth Dumbledore in Fantastic Beasts 3
↑ The card "Hagrid and the Stranger" depicts the Hog's Head Inn, and a man is visible behind the bar. While he looks far younger than Aberforth, this can be attributed to the identity of the barman being unknown when the cards were made.
Order of the Phoenix
Founder:
Albus Dumbledore
Original Order of of the Phoenix:
Aberforth Dumbledore | Alastor Moody | Alice Longbottom | Arabella Figg | Benjy Fenwick | Caradoc Dearborn | Dedalus Diggle | Dorcas Meadowes | Edgar Bones | Elphias Doge | Emmeline Vance | Fabian Prewett | Frank Longbottom | Gideon Prewett | James Potter | Lily Potter | Marlene McKinnon | Mundungus Fletcher | Peter Pettigrew (defected) | Remus Lupin | Rubeus Hagrid | Severus Snape | Sirius Black | Sturgis Podmore
Reconstituted Order of the Phoenix:
Aberforth Dumbledore | Alastor Moody | Arabella Figg | Arthur Weasley | Bill Weasley | Charlie Weasley | Dedalus Diggle | Elphias Doge | Emmeline Vance | Fleur Delacour | Fred Weasley | George Weasley | Harry Potter | Hermione Granger | Hestia Jones | Kingsley Shacklebolt | Minerva McGonagall | Molly Weasley | Mundungus Fletcher | Nymphadora Tonks | Remus Lupin | Ron Weasley | Rubeus Hagrid | Severus Snape | Sirius Black | Sturgis Podmore
Order of the Phoenix allies:
Andromeda Tonks | Augusta Longbottom | Buckbeak | Dobby | Fawkes | Filius Flitwick | Firenze | Garrick Ollivander | Ginny Weasley | Grawp | Helena Ravenclaw | Horace Slughorn | Karkus | Karkus's wife | Kreacher | Lee Jordan | Luna Lovegood | McKinnon family | Mr Westenberg | Mrs Westenberg | Muriel | Nearly-Headless Nick | Neville Longbottom | Oliver Wood | Olympe Maxime | Rita Skeeter | Peeves | Percy Weasley | Pomona Sprout | Poppy Pomfrey | Sybill Trelawney | Ted Tonks | The Fallen Fifty | Westenberg family | Winky | Xenophilius Lovegood
Other affiliations:
Dumbledore's Army | Forbidden Forest Centaur colony | Headless Hunt | Hogwarts Hippogriff herd | Hogwarts house-elves | Hogwarts Ghosts | Hogwarts Staff |
Hogwarts students | Hogwarts Thestral herd | Ministry of Magic | Giant colony (Karkus's control)
Hogsmeade
Scotland, Great Britain
Founder: Hengist of Woodcroft
Shops
Baby Witch · Brews and Stews Café · Ceridwen's Cauldrons · Dervish and Banges · Dogweed and Deathcap · Dominic Maestro's · Gladrags Wizardwear · Hog's Head Inn · Honeydukes · J. Pippin's Potions · Madam Puddifoot's Tea Shop · The Magic Neep · McBloom & McMuck · McHavelock's Wizarding Headgear · Ollivanders · Pedrus Pridgeon · Rosa Lee Teabag · Scribbulus Writing Implements · Scrivenshaft's Quill Shop · Spintwitches · Three Broomsticks Inn · Tomes and Scrolls · Zonko's Joke Shop
Other locations
Hogsmeade Station · Hogsmeade Post Office · Hairdressing salon · Merge Publications · Office 323 · Shrieking Shack · Vladimir Plot Plumbing Supplies · Wizarding Wireless Network Headquarters
Known residents and shop employees
Madam Rosmerta · Aberforth Dumbledore · Madam Puddifoot · Ambrosius Flume · Ambrosius Flume's wife · Dominic Maestro · Unidentified Ollivander's associate · Employee of the Hogsmeade Post Office · Archibald Bennett · Three Broomsticks waiter · Horace · J. Pippin · McHavelock · Scrivenshaft · Vladimir Plot · Zonko · Bilton Bilmes · Gwendoline Babcocke · Gwendoline Babcocke's mother · Silvanus Kettleburn · Lucy Lanyon · Betty Huxley · Agnes Nutt · Wally Wimbles · Mopsy Fleabert