Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
Addison Fawley
Biographical information
Born
Between 2006 and 2015[1]
Blood status
Pure-blood, Half-blood or Squib[2] (possibly)
Nationality
British
Physical information
Species
Human
Relationship information
Family members
Grim Fawley (father)
Penelope Fawley (mother)
Melody Fawley (sister)
Lucretia Fawley (grandmother) †
Marshall Fawley (grandfather) †
Grandfather
Grandmother
Affiliation
Loyalty
Fawley family
[Source]
Addison Fawley was the son of Grim Fawley and Penelope Fawley, who were Aurors. He had a sister, Melody Fawley.
Contents
1 Biography
2 Personality
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
In 2015,[3], Penelope went missing and a subsequent investigation overseen by the council of which Gareth Greengrass was a member, was called off. Grim began searching for her, leading Constance Pickering to suspect he had unleashed the Calamity through the use of the Foundables Spell.[4]
Personality
Addison was said to have inherited his mother Penelope's stubbornness, but she thought he was like Grim.[5]
Appearances
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑ In Harry Potter: Wizards Unite, Constance Pickering says Grim and Penelope got married in June 2006 "and then they had two children". Penelope went missing 2015, so her children had to be born in that nine year period.
↑ Grim and Penelope were a witch and a wizard, and the Fawley family was one of the Sacred Twenty-Eight. Unless he was a Squib, he had to be at least half-blood.
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite was set in 2018. It states Penelope has been missing for three years.
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see video)
↑ A section of Grim's journal

This article about a specific character is a stub. You can help by expanding it.