Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore & Harry Potter: Wizards Unite.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Alliance
Organisation information
Founder(s)
Gellert Grindelwald
Founded
in 1899 or early 1900s
Dissolved
c. 1945
Leader(s)
Gellert Grindelwald
Headquarters
Unidentified home, Paris, France (briefly)
Nurmengard Castle, Austria
Intentions
Overthrow the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy
Force Non-magic people into subservience
Enemies
International Confederation of Wizards
Magical Congress of the United States of America
British Ministry of Magic
French Ministry of Magic
Albus Dumbledore
Non-magic people
[Source]
"We only want freedom. The freedom to be ourselves."
— Grindelwald's seemingly noble mission statement, to mask his true sinister agenda[src]
The Alliance[1] was an association of seditious witches and wizards who followed the Dark Wizard Gellert Grindelwald in the early twentieth century. Fanatics dedicated to Grindelwald's ideology of Wizarding supremacy, they referred to themselves as his "acolytes". Their main goal was to expose the world wizarding community and provoke a war with Non-magic people, with the intent overturning the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy and eventually forcing the non-magical population into slavery under their motto: "For the Greater Good". While many of the acolytes were fervent believers in Grindelwald’s mantra of magical supremacy at any cost, most were simply idealistic young witches and wizards who were taken in by the dark wizard's charisma and manipulation.
Contents
1 History
1.1 Formation
1.2 Global wizarding war
1.2.1 Aftermath
2 Known members
2.1 Allies
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
History
Formation
"When we've won they'll flee cities in their millions. They've had their time."
— Vinda Rosier[src]
Between about 1900, when Grindelwald fled Britain, and 1945, the year of his downfall, Dark Wizard Gellert Grindelwald formed an army of witches and wizards. Grindelwald intended to unite the Deathly Hallows, which he believed would make him and his followers invincible. The Deathly Hallows' symbol became the symbol of the Alliance. They used Nurmengard Castle as a base. According to Grindelwald, Aurors ruthlessly fought against his acolytes "simply for believing".[2]
Global wizarding war
"Your policies of violence and suppression are driving supporters into his arms"
— Albus Dumbledore to Torquil Travers[src]
A pamphlet advertising Grindelwald's rally in Paris
In 1927 Grindelwald acquired the support of Queenie Goldstein and Gunnar Grimmson. Later, all of his followers attended a meeting in the Lestrange Mausoleum. There, he gave a rousing speech, in which he shared his idealist perspective of non-magic people and told of the Second World War, implying it would come to pass if the army lost to the wizarding governments. Grindelwald, openly recognising the battalion of Aurors that had infiltrated the rally, told his followers to remain calm as he revealed their presence and invited them into the circle. They killed a young witch, making Grindelwald's followers furious. After making a martyr of the girl, Grindelwald commanded his followers to disapparate from the scene while he faced off against the Aurors.[2]
After a number of years terrorising Europe, Grindelwald was defeated by Albus Dumbledore in 1945.[3]
Aftermath
After Grindelwald lost the duel, while this group's status at this time is unknown, it can be assumed that the remaining members were hunted down and arrested by wizarding authorities, killed for resisting, or possibly had dissolved into hiding.
Known members
Gellert Grindelwald, the Alliances's founder and leader
Gellert Grindelwald's inner circle of acolytes
Vinda Rosier
Abernathy
Krall (Killed by Grindelwald)
Carrow
Krafft
Nagel
MacDuff
Acolyte thug
Unidentified Acolyte
Credence Barebone
Queenie Goldstein
Cassius Bell
Allies
Gunnar Grimmson
Appearances
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them: The Original Screenplay (Mentioned only)
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned only)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay (First appearance)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑ The Archive of Magic: The Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
↑
2.0 2.1 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay
↑ Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 6 (The Journey from Platform Nine and Three-Quarters)
The Alliance
Leader Gellert Grindelwald
Acolytes Carrow | MacDuff | Nagel | Krafft | Krall (deceased) | Abernathy | Vinda Rosier
Followers Aurelius Dumbledore | Queenie Goldstein | Gunnar Grimmson
Headquarters Unidentified home | Nurmengard