Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery & Harry Potter: Wizards Unite.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Amelia Susan Bones
Biographical information
Born
Before 1973 (most likely)[1]
Died
Between the 8th and the 14th of July 1996[2]
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood[3]
Marital status
Single[4]
Nationality
British[5]
Title(s)
Madam[5]
Interrogator[5]
Physical information
Species
Human[5]
Gender
Female[5]
Hair colour
Grey, short[6]
Relationship information
Family members
Mr Bones (father) †[7]
Mrs Bones (mother) †[7]
Edgar Bones (brother) †[7]
Sister-in-law †[7]
Susan Bones (niece)[7]
nieces and nephews[7]
Affiliation
Occupation
Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement[8]
Member of the Wizengamot[5]
Loyalty
Ministry of Magic[8]
Department of Magical Law Enforcement[8]
Wizengamot[5]
Order of the Phoenix (indirectly)
[Source]
"Amelia Bones is okay... she's fair, she'll hear you out"
— Nymphadora Tonks regarding Amelia's impartial and professional nature[src]
Amelia Susan[5] Bones (d. mid-July, 1996)[2] was a British witch and celebrated Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement.[8] Born to Mr. and Mrs Bones, she likely attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry before joining the Ministry of Magic.
Madam Bones, having a seat on the Wizengamot, presided over the disciplinary hearing of Harry Potter. She was fair, unlike Cornelius Fudge, the prosecutor, and was astounded and impressed by Harry's ability to conjure a corporeal Patronus. She voted for the clearing of all of his charges and Harry was allowed to leave.[5] A year after in the second week of July 1996, Amelia was murdered, likely by Lord Voldemort, though she put up a valiant fight.[4]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Department of Magical Law Enforcement
1.3 Second Wizarding War (1995-1996)
1.3.1 Death
1.4 The Calamity
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Relationships
5.1 Family
5.2 Coworkers
5.3 Albus Dumbledore
5.4 Harry Potter
6 Etymology
7 Behind the scenes
8 Appearances
9 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Little is known about Amelia's early life, other than that the First Wizarding War took a heavy toll on her family: her father and mother were killed by Lord Voldemort:[9] Amelia's brother Edgar, a member of the Order of the Phoenix, his wife, and their children were murdered by Death Eaters.[7] She had at least one surviving sibling, however, as she and Edgar shared a niece, Susan, who was born to another brother. As she was a partial namesake of her niece, it is likely that she was close to that brother. It is also likely she attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry during her youth, although the nature of her education is unknown.
Department of Magical Law Enforcement
"I remember when I was a young clerk…"
— Madam Bones[src]
Sometime after her schooling, Amelia joined the Ministry of Magic, at first in a minor clerical position.[10] She was there-on known as "Madam Bones". She would later become the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and had a seat on the Wizengamot.[8][5]
During the 1990–1991 school year, Madam Bones asked Jacob's sibling to help plan a Ministry Party for the Department as a part of their Ministry of Magic student programme assignments.[11]
Second Wizarding War (1995-1996)
"My father reckons your aunt's a troublemaker, someone will teach her a lesson!"
— Gregory Goyle foreshadows what happens to Amelia[src]
Respected and celebrated by most, the father of Gregory Goyle called her a "troublemaker" and that someone should teach her a lesson,[12] presumably disliking her due to her unbiasedness and his association with the Death Eaters.
Amelia at Harry Potter's disciplinary hearing
Madam Bones sat on the Wizengamot and presided over Harry Potter's disciplinary hearing in 1995, which was initially supposed to take place in her office but was instead moved to Courtroom Ten in the depths of the Ministry. There, she sat on the bench along with Cornelius Fudge and Dolores Umbridge who acted as "Interrogators". Albus Dumbledore was the "witness for the defence". Despite poor treatment of Harry by Fudge, Madam Bones managed to keep the trial fairly unbiased and in defiance of Fudge's recent threats to fire anybody loyal or friendly to Dumbledore, allowed him to speak.[5]
She also confirmed that under the rules laid down by her department, the accused had the right to provide witnesses and evidence in their defence and to use magic in front of Muggles if circumstances threatened the safety of all present, something which Fudge was actively trying to deny. Thanks to this, Harry was found innocent by a large majority of the court, including Madam Bones herself. During the trial, Madam Bones expressed admiration for Harry's ability to produce a corporeal Patronus at such a young age, and believed Arabella Figg's testimony when Fudge stubbornly didn't.[5]
Death
Girl 1: "Did you hear about her aunt? Poor Susan."
Girl 2: "Yes, it's awful, I didn't want to leave my family behind this summer."
— Two students mentioning Amelia and Susan Bones[src]
A 1996 Daily Prophet article: "Amelia Bones found murdered at her home"
Amelia was murdered during the second week of July in the 1996 summer holiday,[2] presumably for her anti-Voldemort activities, in her own home. In the opinion of Fudge, who had recently been dismissed as Minister for Magic, she had likely been murdered by Voldemort himself, as she was known to be a very skilled witch and all the evidence left proved that considerable effort was required to kill her. Her murder was also reported in the Muggle newspapers, the nature of which baffled Muggle police officers as she was murdered in a room which was locked from the inside; only the Muggle Prime Minister was notified by Fudge the true reason of her demise.[4] Afterward, some members of the Order of the Phoenix referred to her as one of the greatest witches of her time, and that her absence would be keenly felt by many.[13]
Pius Thicknesse replaced Madam Bones as Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement after her death.[4]
It is possible that she was targeted by Voldemort as she was seen as a likely replacement for Fudge after his removal (the position of Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement is often used as a stepping stone to the Ministership) and would have been impossible to manipulate or control in that regard. Another possibility would be that she was acknowledged to be one of the greatest and most powerful witches of her time, and therefore Voldemort would certainly have regarded her as a significant threat.
The Calamity
During the 2010s, Madam Bones appeared as a Foundable during the Calamity. Volunteer members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force were able to free her, allowing Madam Bones to return to her original time.[14]
Physical appearance
Amelia Bones was described as being a square-jawed witch with close-cropped grey hair and a monocle. This gave her an appearance of being a serious person, which matched her personality perfectly. She also had a loud, booming voice.[5]
Personality and traits
Amelia Bones was a serious, but fair person who did not overlook obvious points. She gave Harry Potter and Mrs Figg a chance to testify, and was also one to be impressed with remarkable feats, given her admiration of Harry's production of a corporeal Patronus at such a young age. Unbiased and firm, she did not cave into Fudge's intimidation and corrupt authority, and even openly expressed her friendliness with Arthur Weasley, a known supporter of Dumbledore and Harry, even in Fudge's presence, whereas many other coworkers avoided him out of fear of the Minister threatening to fire anyone in league with them.[5]
Besides this, Amelia was a courageous woman, putting up a valiant fight against Voldemort himself despite knowing that she would more than likely perish, though she was ultimately killed.[4] It is also very likely that she was kind, given the fact that Susan Bones, her niece, was upset when she died.
Magical abilities and skills
"A terrible loss. She was a great witch."
— Albus Dumbledore expressing the loss of Amelia Bones[src]
Magical mastery: Amelia was a very talented and competent witch, respected for her magical talent by Albus Dumbledore himself, arguably the greatest sorcerer of the age.[13] Amelia was powerful enough to be considered a threat by Voldemort himself, who felt he had to be the one to kill her, further commenting on her powerful magical ability. Her death, like the death of fellow witch Emmeline Vance, was a terrible blow.
Duelling: Amelia was a highly skilled duellist, being able to hold her own against Lord Voldemort himself for a while when he arrived to murder her. Fudge also confirmed that she was a very gifted witch, and the evidence showed that she had put up a good fight.[4]
Relationships
Family
"She’s my auntie, I’m Susan Bones. She told me about your hearing. So — is it really true? You make a stag Patronus?"
— Susan Bones regarding her aunt to Harry Potter[src]
Amelia was a member of the Bones family, a family of many great witches and wizards. The Bones family supported the Order of the Phoenix during the First Wizarding War. Their support of the Order was the reason why the most of them were murdered by Lord Voldemort or his Death Eaters.[7]
Amelia had at least one unknown sibling and one brother Edgar. Edgar had a wife and children, but were all murdered by Death Eaters during the First Wizarding War, along with Amelia's parents. Her surviving sibling had at least one child, her niece Susan. They seemed to have a close relationship, as Susan was distraught over her death in the summer of 1996. Amelia was single and had no children.[4]
Coworkers
Amelia commanded great respect from her fellow coworkers at the Ministry of Magic, and she respected them in return. During Cornelius Fudge's campaign to discredit Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter, in which he ensured anyone who affiliated themselves with either of the two would be dismissed, Amelia remained fair during the disciplinary hearing of Harry Potter, and followed Dumbledore's opinion of following the proper protocols, while accepting Arabella Figg's testimony without bias. She also remained in friendly terms with Arthur Weasley, a known supporter of Dumbledore and Harry, and did not let Fudge's tyrannical bias distort her job, which Fudge could not seem to circumvent.[5] When she died in battle against Lord Voldemort, Fudge sadly regarded her death as tragic.[4]
Albus Dumbledore
Amelia's effectiveness and unbiased personality has earned the respect of Albus Dumbledore. During the hearing, he appealed to her to follow the protocols of the Wizengamot, in which she agreed, and she permitted him to speak in Harry's defence and bring in witnesses.[5] When Amelia was murdered the following year, Albus noted she was a great witch, and mourned her loss deeply.[13]
Harry Potter
"Impressive. A true Patronus at that age... very impressive indeed."
— Amelia impressed by Harry's ability to conjure a corporeal Patronus[src]
During a disciplinary hearing, Harry Potter was tried unfairly by the corrupt Minister Fudge. However, Amelia managed to keep the court back on track, permitting Harry to explain his reasons for breaking the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery.[5]
Amelia also questioned him about his Patronus and was very impressed that a fifteen-year old had managed to achieve a corporeal form, even extending this complimentary information with her niece. It was due to Madam Bones' fairness and impressiveness that Harry was correctly acquitted, and he came to respect her for it.[5] When he read of her death the following year, Harry was saddened. Harry later avenged Amelia when he killed Voldemort at the Battle of Hogwarts.
Etymology
Amelia is a female given name. It is a variant of Amalia, derived from the Germanic word amal meaning "work" and means "industrious" and "fertile". The diminutive is usually Amy, Lia, Mia, Mel, or Mimi.
Etymologists believe that the name Amelia/Amalia is unrelated to the Latin gens name Aemilia, which was translated into English as Emily. Equivalents of Aemilia/Emily in romance languages do sound similar to Amelia (e.g. Italian Emilia) but have a different origin from this Germanic name.
Behind the scenes
Amelia Bones is portrayed by Sian Thomas in the film adaptations of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and Part 1 of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
In the film, Amelia was killed during the Christmas Holidays, as shown in the newspaper when Hermione and Harry returned to school, rather than over the summer.
In the books, she is known to wear a monocle, whereas in the films her eyes have nothing on them.
In an early script for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Amelia is incorrectly referred to by the name of her niece, Susan.[15]
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 12 images related to Amelia Bones.
Madam Bones as seen in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Mentioned only) (Seen on the Daily Prophet)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (Seen on the Daily Prophet)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (video game) (Mentioned only) (Not by name)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (Seen on the Daily Prophet)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
Notes and references
↑ Amelia was already a Ministry employee during the 1990–1991 school year as seen in Year 7 of Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 1 (The Other Minister) - "Even the weather was dismal; all this chilly mist in the middle of July…" […] "What a week, what a week…" "Had a bad one too, have you?" asked the Prime Minister stiffly, hoping to convey by this that he had quite enough on his plate already without any extra helpings from Fudge. "Yes, of course," said Fudge, rubbing his eyes wearily and looking morosely at the Prime Minister. "I've been having the same week you have, Prime Minister. The Brockdale Bridge… the Bones and Vance murders… not to mention the ruckus in the West Country…"
↑ The Bones family were a wizarding family. Rubeus Hagrid told Harry Potter that Amelia's parents were among the wizards killed by Lord Voldemort himself. It's unknown if she had Muggle heritage from her grandparents' generation.
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 1 (The Other Minister)
↑
5.00 5.01 5.02 5.03 5.04 5.05 5.06 5.07 5.08 5.09 5.10 5.11 5.12 5.13 5.14 5.15 5.16 5.17 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 8 (The Hearing)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 8 (The Hearing) - "A broad, square-jawed witch with very short grey hair sat on Fudge’s left;"
↑
7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 7.7 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 25 (The Beetle at Bay)
↑
8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.4 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 7 (The Ministry of Magic)
↑ 20 October, 2000 chat with J.K. Rowling at Accio Quote!
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 6 (A Window of Opportunity) - Assignment "Auror Field Training"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 6 (A Window of Opportunity) - Assignment "Plan Ministry Party"
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game)
↑
13.0 13.1 13.2 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 4 (Horace Slughorn)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - Second Draft
Preceded by:
Unknown, eventually Bartemius Crouch Snr Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement
?-1996 Succeeded by:
Pius Thicknesse
Department of Magical Law Enforcement employees
Heads of Department
Justus Pilliwickle · Torquil Travers · Bartemius Crouch Senior · Amelia Bones · Pius Thicknesse · Corban Yaxley · Harry Potter
Auror Office
Heads: Theseus Scamander · Rufus Scrimgeour · Gawain Robards · Harry Potter
Mordecai Berrycloth · John Dawlish · Penelope Fawley · Dorian Fungbury · Timothy Hale · Alice Longbottom · Frank Longbottom · Neville Longbottom · Alastor Moody · Riya Patel · Proudfoot · Savage · Kingsley Shacklebolt · Nymphadora Tonks · Ronald Weasley · Williamson · Unidentified Aurors · Unidentified male Auror at Hogwarts · 3 Unidentified Aurors at Hogwarts · Director of the Investigation Department No. 61042
Improper Use of Magic Office
Heads: Travers · Dolores Umbridge
Mafalda Hopkirk · Honoria's fiancé · Mafalda Hopkirk's Ministerial Superior · Rufus Fudge · Orabella Nuttley · Chester Davies
Other Personnel
Leta Lestrange · Minerva McGonagall · Elphinstone Urquart · Alastor Gumboil · Arnold Peasegood · Arthur Weasley · Perkins · Cerberus Langarm · Hermione Granger · Bob Ogden · Tulip Karasu's mother · Tulip Karasu's father · Dempster Wiggleswade · Amelia Bones's assistant · Arthur Weasley's ten subordinates · Unidentified Hit Wizard · Unidentified Wizengamot clerk
Level 10 employees
Wizengamot members
Amelia Bones · Elphias Doge · Albus Dumbledore · Cornelius Fudge · Griselda Marchbanks · Tiberius Ogden · Ralston Potter · Henry Potter · Dolores Umbridge · Two elderly witches · Dumpy, heavily-moustached wizard · Frizzy-haired witch
Council of Magical Law members
Albus Dumbledore · Alastor Moody · Bartemius Crouch Senior · Female juror · Male member · Clerk
Muggle-Born Registration Commission members
Dolores Umbridge · Yaxley