Babbitty Rabbity
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Female[1]
Hair colour
Dark[1]
Skin colour
White[1]
Magical characteristics
Animagus
Rabbit[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Washerwoman[1]
[Source]
"If you fail to help me, I shall denounce you as a witch, and it will be you who is torn apart by the King's hounds!"
— The Charlatan[src]
Babbitty Rabbitty is the main protagonist of the children's tale, Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump in The Tales of Beedle the Bard, by Beedle the Bard. Babbitty was known to be a very wise old witch, who had worked as a washerwoman for a terribly foolish Muggle King.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 An Instructor of Magic
1.2 The King's Promise
2 Relationships
2.1 The King
2.2 The Charlatan
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Influence
6 Etymology
7 Behind the scenes
8 See also
9 Appearances
10 Notes and references
Biography
An Instructor of Magic
"I must look most undignified, to make the old washerwoman laugh so!"
— The King[src]
When a charlatan attempted to teach the king magic, her cackling made the king suspect the charlatan. The charlatan enlisted Babbitty's help in continuing his ruse through a demonstration by the king. The king cast spells, which were actually done by Babbitty who was hiding in a bush. When someone asked the king to resurrect a dog, neither the king nor Babbitty could oblige. This made the subjects ridicule the king. The king sentenced the charlatan to death, who turned around and accused Babbitty and said that a wicked witch was blocking them. Babbitty ran from the bush, and when the hounds chased after her she "disappeared", leaving the dogs barking at a tree.[1]
The King's Promise
"You will erect a statue of Babbitty upon me, in memory of your poor washerwoman, and to remind you for ever of your foolishness!"
— Babbitty[src]
Babbity in her rabbit form
The charlatan told the king and the crowd that Babbitty had turned into a tree, and that the tree must be cut down, because she is an "evil" witch. The king was wild, and the tree was cut down. As the crowd and the king started to leave, they heard a cackling coming from the stump. Babbitty told the king that real wizards and witches cannot be cut in half, and that they should cut the charlatan in half to prove it. The charlatan confessed he was a fraud, and the witch told them that the King is cursed, and he'll wish for death every time a witch or wizard was harmed. Babbitty demanded a statue be built of herself, to remind them of what they've done. The King promised. Soon after, an old rabbit appeared out of a hole in the stump, with a wand in its mouth, revealing that she was an Animagus, and left the kingdom. Forever after, the statue of Babbitty remained on top of the stump.[1]
Relationships
The King
The King
"Very good, but you have not yet made amends to Babbitty"
— Babbitty[src]
Babbitty was the king's washerwoman, and while he was her employer, she knew that he was terribly foolish. Much more intelligent than the king, Babbitty turned into a rabbit and hid inside a tree. When the King had the tree chopped down, she told the petrified King that by cutting a witch in half, he had unleashed a terrible curse upon his kingdom and every stroke of harm that he inflicted upon fellow wizards and witches would feel like an axe stroke in his side. Fooled into believing this, the naive King promised that he would issue a proclamation at once, protecting wizards and witches of the kingdom and to erect a statue of Babbitty on the stump.[1]
The Charlatan
The Charlatan
"Cut her down, Your Majesty, that is the way to treat evil witches!"
— The Charlatan[src]
She thought that the charlatan and King's "lessons" were ridiculous and laughed at the King, causing the charlatan to become in danger. Babbitty was blackmailed by to perform the King's spells for him without his knowledge, or else he denounce her as a witch to the Brigade of Witch-Hunters. Babbitty disliked the charlatan, and the charlatan was willing to have her killed to save his own skin, as he suggested that the king chop down the tree that Babbitty had "turned into". Babbitty told the crowd that real wizards and witches cannot be cut in half, and that they should cut the charlatan in half to prove it. Terrified, the charlatan then confessed he is a fraud.[1]
Personality and traits
"...was watching the King and the charlatan from the window of her tiny cottage, and was laughing so hard she she soon sank out of sight, too weak to stand"
— Babbitty's humour[src]
Babbitty was a wise and resourceful witch. She had a strong sense of humour as she cackles uncontrollably when the King and charlatan practise their "magic". She was also quite the quick-thinker, shown when she swiftly conjured an intelligent plan even though, at the time, she was fleeing from the Brigade of Witch-Hunters. She was a folk hero to young wizards and witches across the wizarding world, displaying ingenuity and cleverness.[1]
Magical abilities and skills
Charms: Babbitty was apparently good with charms. She could levitate a horse and do her wash duties with magic for example, showing she was skilled with household spells.[1]
Transfiguration: Babbitty was evidently very powerful in this branch of magic, as she mastered a difficult branch of transfiguration to became an Animagus. She could transform into a white rabbit at will. She was also proficient in Vanishment, as she shown when she successfully vanished a hat, another advanced branch of transfiguration.[1]
Potions: Being an Animagus, she would have needed to have successfully brewed an Animagus potion, in order to gain the ability to transform. This implies she had great skill in the art of potion-making, as brewing the Animagus potion is immensely difficult, complex and time-consuming.
Dark Arts (possibly): Babbitty threatened the King that each time he hurt a Wizard or Witch, it would hurt himself. Albus Dumbledore speculated that she could have inflicted this pain using the Cruciatus Curse, which was legal at the time.[1]
Influence
"...some magical historians have suggested that Beedle modelled Babbitty on the famous French sorceress Lisette de Lapin, who was convicted of witchcraft in Paris in 1422."
— Professor Dumbledore's notes[src]
Magical historians have suggested that Lisette de Lapin may have been the inspiration behind Babbitty.[1]
In 1998, Ron Weasley mentioned being told the story of Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump by his mother when he was a child.[2]
Etymology
Babbitty might be the revised name for Babette, a French diminutive of Elizabeth. This seems to bolster Dumbledore's argument that Babbitty was based on Lisette de Lapin; Lisette is also a diminutive of Elizabeth.
Behind the scenes
Babitty in her Animagus form is shown in several cover illustrations of The Tales of Beedle the Bard. The German version makes a mistake, as it depicts a brown rabbit instead of a white one.
See also
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (Mentioned only)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (First appearance)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 1.11 1.12 1.13 1.14 1.15 The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "Babbitty Rabbitty and Her Cackling Stump"
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 7 (The Will of Albus Dumbledore)

The Tales of Beedle the Bard
By Beedle the Bard
Stories
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump · The Fountain of Fair Fortune · The Warlock's Hairy Heart · The Tale of the Three Brothers · The Wizard and the Hopping Pot
Characters
Altheda · Amata · Amata's lover · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's enemy · Antioch Peverell's killer · Asha · Babbitty · Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Cadmus Peverell · Cadmus Peverell's fiancée · Captain of the Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Charlatan · Death · Evil Sorcerer · Gigantic white worm · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · King · Kinsfolk · Maiden · Old man · Old man's donkey · Old man's family · Peasant woman · Peasant woman's granddaughter · Sabre · Sir Luckless · Warlock · Warlock's family · The Warlock's friends · Wizard · Wizard's father · Young woman · Young woman's child
Objects
Altheda's potion · Altheda's wand · Cloak of Invisibility · Creepers · Crystal casket · Elder Wand · Enchanted garden · Fountain · Gold statue of Babbitty · Hairy Heart · The Hopping Pot · Never-ending hill · Poisonous toadstool · Poultice for warts · Resurrection Stone · Silver chalice
Animagi
Before registration system
Falco Aesalon (Falcon) · Cliodna (Sea Bird) · Morgan le Fay (Bird) · Morrigan (Crow)
Registered
Minerva McGonagall (Cat) · Adrian Tutley (Gerbil) · Talbott Winger's mother (White Swan) · Unidentified witch (Black cat) · Five unidentified individuals (Unknown)
Unregistered
Sirius Black (Black dog) · Olivier Kikkert (Frog) · Peter Pettigrew (Rat) · James Potter (Stag) · Rita Skeeter (Beetle) · Talbott Winger (Eagle)
Unknown registry status
Bly (Lemur) · Jacob's sibling (Brown dog, Black and white cat or Eagle) · Lottie Turner's father (Butterfly)
Fictional Animagi
Babbitty Rabbity (Rabbit)