Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Badeea Ali
Biographical information
Born
Between 1 September 1972 and 31 August 1973
Blood status
Half-blood or Muggle-born[1]
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Eye colour
Brown
Skin colour
Pale
Relationship information
Family members
Mother
Affiliation
House
Ravenclaw
Loyalty
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Ravenclaw
Sphinx Club[3]
Circle of Khanna[4]
[Source]
Badeea Ali was a witch who started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1984 and was sorted into Ravenclaw. A creatively ingenious soul, she took an instant interest in the portraits that hung all throughout the castle from the moment she set foot in the castle and proceeded to spend most of her time outside of her lessons experimenting with the creation of magical paintings of people and places, and the necessary spellwork required to make them come to life.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Hogwarts years (1984-1991)
1.1.1 Fifth year
1.1.2 Sixth year
2 Physical Appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Behind the scenes
5.1 Friend Interaction correct answers
5.1.1 Meal with a Friend
5.1.2 Playing Gobstones
5.1.3 Drink Butterbeer
6 Appearances
7 Notes and references
Biography
Badeea was born in 1972 or 1973. Her mother was a Muggle engineer, making Badeea either Muggle-born or half-blood.
She owned a pet cat called Laith. She loved painting the cat and said she could never have enough cat portraits.[5] She also enjoyed experimenting to create new defensive spells.
She may have been Muslim, given that she wore a hijab, a head covering traditionally worn by women of the Islamic faith, along with her Arabic name (as most Muslims have them).
Hogwarts years (1984-1991)
Badeea started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on 1 September and was sorted into Ravenclaw house. Due to being a female Ravenclaw of the same year, she may have shared a dorm room with Tulip Karasu.
She spent her afternoons in the Clock Tower Courtyard, where she created magical portraits. She did not pay attention to the events going on at Hogwarts.[6]
She successfully convinced another student, Jae Kim, that she was able to apparate, but in reality she used an invisibility cloak.[7]
In her second year, during the Teacher Appreciation Celebration, Badeea wondered why there wasn't a Student Appreciation Celebration.[8]
In her third year, Badeea took Divination[9] and the Muggle Studies[10] as an elective.
Fifth year
In the 1988–1989 school year, she had Defence Against the Dark Arts and History of Magic[11] classes with, among others, Jacob's sibling.
She and Jacob's sibling met in the Clock Tower Courtyard when Badeea Ali was creating a magical portrait of Hogsmeade. Jacob's sibling needed her help to rescue Beatrice Haywood, who was stuck in a painting, after Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington had told them about Badeea. Badeea explained that she had been attempting to recreate the portrait with Beatrice. She advised them to try something they would never normally do find a solution; taking this to heart, Jacob's sibling put on a cheery, complimentary attitude towards Pitts in detention, Argus Filch, and Merula Snyde, and obtained surprising results.
Later on, Jacob's sibling met up with Badeea in Defence Against the Dark Arts classroom when the former was looking for Patricia Rakepick. Jacob's sibling asked Badeea to teach them one ability.
Badeea and Jacob's sibling later invented the Star Shower Spell as part of the latter's chaos event in an attempt to get the Vault Portrait from Peeves.
Sixth year
Sometime during the year, Badeea became a founding member of the Circle of Khanna, a group devoted to avenging Rowan Khanna and locating the final cursed vault. It was at the groups first meeting in the Hog's Head Inn that she learned of the malevolent organisation "R" and it's motives to locate the final Cursed Vault before them. As their first task, Badeea and Talbott made a Map of the Great Lake.[4]
Physical Appearance
Badeea wore a blue sparkled hijab, and had brown eyes and pale skin.
Personality and traits
Being a member of Ravenclaw house, Badeea was a highly intelligent and creative young witch with an impressive talent for painting and the experimentation with new forms of magic and spells. She was academically-minded, who took great interest in her schoolwork and thus often enjoyed discussing academic topics with other students. She was also friendly and good-natured, as she was willing to assist Jacob's sibling when they needed her help. Indeed, she was so devoted to her hobby as an artist that she did not pay much attention to many of the events that went on at Hogwarts, showing her to be a fiercely dedicated individualist who preferred living in her own imagination and world, rather than being too obsessed with reality. She feared anything with which she could not interact through reason, which included birds.
Magical abilities and skills
Spell creation: Badeea invented the Star Shower Spell with the help from Jacob's sibling and Severus Snape, along with the jinx Flipendo Maxima, a highly powerful version of the Knockback Jinx, both whilst she attended Hogwarts. These were incredibly impressive achievements for a Hogwarts student, given how the art of spell creation is both highly complex and even dangerous, showing her to have been a highly accomplished and inventive witch in this respect.
Charms: Badeea was proficient in charm-work, as she successfully created the Star Shower Spell, an Atmospheric Charm and was able to place the necessary charms on the portraits she painted to give them personality. She also enjoyed experimenting with new Defensive Charms in her free time.
Astronomy: Badeea was skilled in astronomy given how she had earned a O.W.L. in the subject at Hogwarts, allowing her to study it at N.E.W.T. level.[12]
Divination: Badeea was skilled in the art of divination, given how she had earned a O.W.L. in the subject at Hogwarts, allowing her to study it at N.E.W.T. level.[13]
Transfiguration: Badeea was skilled in transfiguration given how she had earned a O.W.L. in the subject at Hogwarts, allowing her to study it at N.E.W.T. level.[14]
Defence Against the Dark Arts: Badeea was skilled in this Defence against the Dark Arts given how she had earned a O.W.L. in the subject at Hogwarts, allowing her to study it at N.E.W.T. level.
Artistic skills: Badeea was a highly talented and imaginative artist, who specialised in the creation of magical, living portraits, due to her own personal fascination with such magical items.
Muggle Studies: Badea earned an O.W.L. in Muggle Studies and continued the subject at N.E.W.T. level.[15]
Behind the scenes
"Badeea Ali is an incredibly creative Ravenclaw who's constantly pushing the limits of art and magic. Her unorthodox approach helps her invent new spells, and helps you solve seemingly impossible problems."
— Character Info[src]
Based on her name, it is possible that she was of Arabic descent. Her wearing of a hijab further supports the idea that she is of Arabic Muslim background. However, even non-Arab Muslims usually have names with these roots (i.e. ones from Africa or Pakistan; more common in the UK and Ireland).
Her being of Islamic background does not seem to have caused any complications for her, despite the religion traditionally having a strongly hostile attitude towards the practising of any kind of magic. However, it is possible that her family do not practice Islam very strictly, have found a way to reconcile their faith with it or simply have excused her case, as preventing Badeea from mastering her magic or forcing her to suppress it could result in her becoming an Obscurial.
Friend Interaction correct answers
Meal with a Friend
✔+ Ingolfr the Iambic
✔+ Godric's Hollow at Night/Witch and Wizard Couple
✔+ Mopsy Fleabert
✔+ Malecrit
✔+ The Hobgoblins
✔+ The Bent-Winged Snitches
✔+ Walter Crane
✔+ Magenta Comstock
Playing Gobstones
✔+ I might fall asleep
✔ I might die of boredom
✔+ Let's discuss History of Magic
✔ Let's discuss Arithmancy
✔+ I'll ask Binns to come lecture
✔ I'll sing you a lullaby
✔+ Sorry, I was nodding
✔ It was quite boring
✔ Let's think boring thoughts
✔+ Let's stare at the ground
✔ I prefer taking a kip
✔+ I don't have an opinion
Drink Butterbeer
✔+ Ali
✔+ Professor Flitwick
✔+ Painting Portraits
✔+ Clocktower Courtyard
✔+ Beatrice Haywood
✔+ Think outside the box
✔+ Nearly Headless Nick
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 48 images related to Badeea Ali.
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑ Her mother was a Muggle. Her father's blood status is unknown.
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "WELCOME TO THE SPHINX CLUB" Achievement
↑
4.0 4.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 20 (A Circle of Friends)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 1 (Year Five Begins)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 4 (Opposite Day)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 20 (Peter Pettigrew)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, "A SPECIAL CELEBRATION OF HOGWARTS TEACHERS!" Achievement
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 2 (Curses and Prophecies)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 3 (On the Case)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 3 (Detention Before Extension) - History of Magic Lesson "Medieval Assembly of European Wizards"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 25 (Written in the Stars) - Astronomy Lesson "Lunar Phases"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 2 (Curses and Prophecies) - Divination Lesson "Tessomancy"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 43 (What's Next) - Transfiguration Lesson "Bowling Ball to Balloon"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 3 (On the Case)