Barnabas Cuffe
Biographical information
Born
between 1914 and 1970[1],
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Signature
Physical information
Species
Human[3]
Gender
Male[3]
Affiliation
Occupation
Editor of the Daily Prophet[3]
Loyalty
Daily Prophet[3]
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry[3]
Slug Club[3]
[Source]
Barnabas Cuffe was a wizard who was the editor-in-chief of the Daily Prophet, working in their main offices in Diagon Alley.[3]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Etymology
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Biography
While studying at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, Cuffe must have either been a very good student, or possibly come from money, power, or has good stories to tell, as Horace Slughorn chose Barnabas to join his Slug Club. As a child, he was very interested in the news, and enjoyed Slughorn's exaggerated outakes on the Daily Prophet. He maintained a good relationship with Slughorn as he stated that Cuffe was always ready to take his owl on the day's news. He also enjoyed receiving vibes as a means of communication.[3]
During Cuffe's leadership, the Daily Prophet was under a strong influence by the Ministry of Magic, which highly relied on the newspaper to assure the support of the British wizarding community.[4]
Aside from being the paper's editor, Cuffe occasionally wrote articles for the Prophet. One such article, entitled "The Wizarding World in Mourning", covered the then-recent death of Albus Dumbledore.[5]
Etymology
The name "Barnabas" is the Greek form of an Aramaic name. In Acts in the New Testament the byname Barnabas was given to a man named Joseph, a companion of Paul on his missionary journeys. The original Aramaic is unattested, but it may be from בּר נביא (bar naviya') meaning "son of the prophet", though in Acts 4:36 it is claimed that the name means "son of encouragement". As an English name, it came into occasional use after the 12th century.
Behind the scenes
Barnabas Cuffe was portrayed by Roger C. Bailey in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.[6]
It is possible, as he was a former Slug Club member, that he attended the Christmas party.
In the original script from the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince his first name is misspelled Barnubas.[7]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (First appearance) (Appears in photograph)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (Appears in photograph)
Harry Potter Limited Edition (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑ Horace Slughorn became Potions Master in 1931. Slughorn resigned from his teaching position in 1981, meaning Cuffe would have been a member of the Slug Club by at least then.
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 4 (Horace Slughorn)
↑ Writing by J.K. Rowling: "The Daily Prophet" at Wizarding World
↑ Harry Potter Limited Edition (see this image)
↑ [1]
↑ Half-Blood Prince script on the Internet Movie Script Database (archived here)
Daily Prophet
Evening Prophet · Sunday Prophet
Regular features Other features
Index (page 01)
Good News (page 02)
Bad News (page 02)
Forecast (page 02)
Potions (page 03)
Magic Lottery (page 04)
E. Limus (page 05)
Astro News (page 06)
Spells (page 07)
International (page 08)
Abracadabra (page 08)
Hocus-Pocus (page 08)
Politics (page 09)
Ministry of Magic Affairs (page 09)
Sports (page 09)
Games (page 09)
Magic News (page 10)
Comment (page 10)
Arts & Warts (page 11)
Tricks & Trucks (page 11)
Opinion (page 12)
Puzzles (page 12)
Kids Corner (page 12)
Black Magic (page 13)
Local News (page 20)
Pink Magic (page 13)
Tragedies (page 15)
Jobs (page 15)
Showizbiz (page 15)
Health (page 16)
Fitness (page 16)
Ask D. Shaman (page 16)
Obituaries (page 17)
Classified (page 18)
Crossword (page 18)
Blablabla (page 19)
Dr. Medusa (page 20)
Magical Symbols Game
Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw
Me, Myself, and I
Weekly zoological column
Bestseller List

List of articles
Known personnel
Editor-in-chief: Barnabas Cuffe
Security Editor: R. Amorim
Reporters: A. Fenetre · Andy Smudgley · Betty Braithwaite · Chief sports writer · E. Limaria · E. Limus · Emma Squiggle · L. Limuria · Kit Gerrard · Miras Phlaras · M. Amerinus · M. Carneirus · R. Almeidas · Rita Skeeter · Talbott Winger's father
Columnists: D. Shaman · E. Limus · Dempster Wiggleswade · Helbert Spleen · Grizel Hurtz · Limunus · Dr Medusa · Winkus Oddpick · Zamira Gulch
Correspondents: Ginny Potter · Rita Skeeter
Photographers: Adrian · Bozo
Newspaper vendors: Paper-owls · Ministry of Magic newspaper vendor
Chief Consulting Magizoologist: Rolf Scamander