Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
"Point me!"
This article is about the fairy tale author. You may be looking for the book he wrote.
Beedle the Bard
Biographical information
Born
c. 15th century
Yorkshire, England, Great Britain
Nationality
English
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Hair colour
Blonde/green[1]
Eye colour
Blue[1]
Skin colour
Light[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Author[2]
[Source]
"If his stories accurately reflect his opinions, he rather liked Muggles, whom he regarded as ignorant rather than malevolent; he mistrusted Dark Magic, and he believed that the worst excesses of wizardkind sprang from the all-too-human traits of cruelty, apathy or arrogant misapplication of their own talents. The heroes and heroines who triumph in his stories are not those with the most powerful magic, but rather those who demonstrate the most kindness, common sense, and ingenuity."
— J. K. Rowling regarding Beedle[src]
Beedle the Bard (fl. 15th century)[3] was an English wizard and author of wizarding fairytales. Beedle was born in Yorkshire, England. At some point in his life he wrote The Tales of Beedle the Bard. Beedle wrote in ancient runes, which were later translated to English.[2]
Taking his stories as an indicator of his opinions, he seemed to have held Muggles in higher esteem than most of his contemporaries. He also valued traits such as: kindness, common sense, and ingenuity.[2]
Contents
1 Works
2 Physical appearance
3 Etymology
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Works
Beedle the Bard writing stories
The Tales of Beedle the Bard consist of at least the following tales:
The Wizard and the Hopping Pot[4]
The Fountain of Fair Fortune[5]
The Warlock's Hairy Heart[6]
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump[7]
The Tale of the Three Brothers[8][9]
Physical appearance
A woodcut of Beedle shows him with a "luxuriant" beard. He appeared to be blonde in his youth.
Etymology
His name may refer to the medieval Anglo-Saxon historian Bede. His epithet could refer to English playwright William Shakespeare, who is known as "The Bard".
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (Depicted in a woodcut)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Depicted in a woodcut)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 (Mentioned only)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (Mentioned only)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard: Illustrated Edition (First appearance) (Appears in photographs)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter Film Wizardry (Depicted in a woodcut)
Harry Potter: The Wand Collection (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 The Tales of Beedle the Bard: Illustrated Edition
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 The Tales of Beedle the Bard
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard, pp. ix, 12
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "The Wizard and the Hopping Pot"
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "The Fountain of Fair Fortune"
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "The Warlock's Hairy Heart"
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "Babbitty Rabbitty and Her Cackling Stump"
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "The Tale of the Three Brothers"
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 21 (The Tale of the Three Brothers)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
By Beedle the Bard
Stories
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump · The Fountain of Fair Fortune · The Warlock's Hairy Heart · The Tale of the Three Brothers · The Wizard and the Hopping Pot
Characters
Altheda · Amata · Amata's lover · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's enemy · Antioch Peverell's killer · Asha · Babbitty · Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Cadmus Peverell · Cadmus Peverell's fiancée · Captain of the Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Charlatan · Death · Evil Sorcerer · Gigantic white worm · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · King · Kinsfolk · Maiden · Old man · Old man's donkey · Old man's family · Peasant woman · Peasant woman's granddaughter · Sabre · Sir Luckless · Warlock · Warlock's family · The Warlock's friends · Wizard · Wizard's father · Young woman · Young woman's child
Objects
Altheda's potion · Altheda's wand · Cloak of Invisibility · Creepers · Crystal casket · Elder Wand · Enchanted garden · Fountain · Gold statue of Babbitty · Hairy Heart · The Hopping Pot · Never-ending hill · Poisonous toadstool · Poultice for warts · Resurrection Stone · Silver chalice