Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Magic Awakened. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Bly
Biographical information
Born
Before 2009[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[2]
Gender
Male[2]
Hair colour
Brown[2]
Eye colour
Brown[2]
Skin colour
Light[2]
Magical characteristics
Animagus
Lemur[2]
Wand
Unknown length, wood and core[2]
[Source]
Bly was a Dark Wizard and a lemur Animagus.[2]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Magical abilities and skills
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
Lottie Turner: "Who are you?"
Bly: "You may recognise me by my other form, by that old fool's side."
Lottie Turner: "Bly? You're an Animagus..."
Bly: "I had to follow that doddering wizard for so long. At first it was a hunt like all the others, but when I realised what we were hunting... I couldn't let him have it!"
Lottie Turner: "You were controlling Professor Gorski?"
Bly: "Yes! He lost his mettle. He wasn't willing to do what had to be done to find the artefact."
— Bly revealing himself to Lottie Turner[src]
During his life, Bly searched for a treasured artefact which turned out to be the Turner family's heirloom and murdered Lottie Turner's father for it.[2]
"And this is my... umm... "assistant", Bly. He has a nose for shiny things."
— Professor Gorski introducing Bly in his Animagus form (a lemur) to his students[src]
Bly in his Animagus form, a lemur
Bly put the Imperius Curse on Jakub Gorski, the visiting History of Magic Professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and transformed into his lemur Animagus form to disguise as Gorski's animal assistant. At one point, he came down to the Chamber of Secrets in his human form, likely in search of Basil Aurelius III's portrait, and when Basil alerted him to a group of students who were talking to Basil at the time, Bly animated a snake statue in the chamber to attack the students before fleeing. He also accompanied Gorski in his Animagus form when he came to the students to check out their progress of the assignment on various occasions.[2]
Once in his Animagus form in the History of Magic Classroom, he controlled Gorski to say "I'm always watching" and bewitch suits of armour to attack the students, who was confronting Gorski about his suspicious activities. He then left, still in his Animagus form but with a wand in his hand, which befuddled the students.[2]
When the students, including Lottie Turner, led the way to the heirloom, Bly showed up in his human form and dragged Lottie through the final barrier, a magical mirror, and forced her to open the heirloom's container. Her friends met up with them and had a fight with Bly, who was defeated.[2]
Magical abilities and skills
"A bunch a children is no match for my magic!"
— Bly boasting about his magical prowess[src]
Dark Arts: Bly was capable of bewitching Jakub Gorski with the Imperius Curse,[2] one of the Unforgivable Curses which required much magical skill to perform.[3]
Duelling: Bly was capable of duelling opponents in combat confidently, showing he was skilled with martial magic, although he was defeated by several Hogwarts students.[2]
Transfiguration: Bly was an Animagus who took the form of a lemur,[2] showing he had mastered the magic of Human Transfiguration, considering the difficulty and patience required in becoming one.
Nonverbal magic: Bly was capable of removing his hood with a simple wave of his wand without saying an incantation, along with the casting of offensive spells, showing he was proficient with nonverbal magic,[2] which was known to be difficult.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 2 images related to Bly.
Harry Potter: Magic Awakened (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑ This page from the official website of NetEase states that the story starts ten years after the Battle of Hogwarts ("游戏故事时间设定在霍格沃茨大战十年之后")
↑
2.00 2.01 2.02 2.03 2.04 2.05 2.06 2.07 2.08 2.09 2.10 2.11 2.12 2.13 2.14 2.15 Harry Potter: Magic Awakened
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 14 (The Unforgivable Curses)
Animagi
Before registration system
Falco Aesalon (Falcon) · Cliodna (Sea Bird) · Morgan le Fay (Bird) · Morrigan (Crow)
Registered
Minerva McGonagall (Cat) · Adrian Tutley (Gerbil) · Talbott Winger's mother (White Swan) · Unidentified witch (Black cat) · Five unidentified individuals (Unknown)
Unregistered
Sirius Black (Black dog) · Olivier Kikkert (Frog) · Peter Pettigrew (Rat) · James Potter (Stag) · Rita Skeeter (Beetle) · Talbott Winger (Eagle)
Unknown registry status
Bly (Lemur) · Jacob's sibling (Brown dog, Black and white cat or Eagle) · Lottie Turner's father (Butterfly)
Fictional Animagi
Babbitty Rabbity (Rabbit)