"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Cadmus Peverell's fiancée
Biographical information
Died
c. 13th century
Marital status
Engaged to Cadmus Peverell
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Hair colour
Brown
Skin colour
Pale
Relationship information
Romances
Cadmus Peverell (fiancé)
Affiliation
Loyalty
Cadmus Peverell
[Source]
"Meanwhile, the second brother journeyed to his own home, where he lived alone. Here he took out the stone that had the power to recall the dead, and turned it thrice in his hand. To his amazement and delight, the figure of the girl he had once hoped to marry, before her untimely death, appeared at once before him. Yet she was sad and cold, separated from him as by a veil. Though she had returned to the mortal world, she did not truly belong there and suffered. Finally the second brother, driven mad with hopeless longing, killed himself so as to truly join her."
— Beedle the Bard, The Tale of the Three Brothers.[src]
Cadmus is haunted by his lost love
According to legend, this woman was in love with Cadmus Peverell, and was set to be married to him before her untimely death. Although Cadmus attempted to use the Resurrection Stone he had taken from Death to bring her back to the world of the living, she was unable to fully return to life, existing as "neither ghost nor truly flesh".[1] In his despair, Cadmus committed suicide in order to be with her again.[2][3]
Behind the scenes
The House of Gaunt are direct descendants of Cadmus Peverell, so it is certain that Cadmus had at least one child in his lifetime. It is not specified if this woman was the mother, or if Cadmus had fathered children from a previous or later relationship. If this woman is the mother of Cadmus Peverell's child/children then she is a direct relative to Tom Riddle Jnr. However, as Albus Dumbledore believed that, in reality, the Deathly Hallows had not been gifts from Death but rather inventions of the Peverells themselves, it is also possible that the circumstances of Cadmus' death were embellished somewhat with the passing down of the legend. Yet, it could be true that he created the Resurrection Stone before his fiancee died, likely in childbirth with his heir, and so he committed suicide after the use of his creation taunted him with her solid, undead figure.
It is possible that she did not exist, and her existence was simply fictionalised by Beedle to explain Cadmus' death. Because there is no way Beedle knew what was really happening, so it is safe to assume that the account in his tale are simply from Beedle's own fancy.
In the consoles versions LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7, the woman becomes playable only when Cadmus Peverell uses the Resurrection Stone at some dangerous events.
The woman of the story bears some resemblance to the Ancient Greek character of Eurydice. In the myth, Eurydice hoped to marry the musician, Orpheus, but was tricked by a satyr into being bitten on the foot by a poisoned snake on her wedding day. Like Cadmus, Orpheus attempts to being her back from the dead, but sadly fails.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (First appearance) (Appears in flashback(s))
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Appears in flashback(s))
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (real)
Notes and references
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 34 (The Forest Again)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 21 (The Tale of the Three Brothers)
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard (real)

The Tales of Beedle the Bard
By Beedle the Bard
Stories
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump · The Fountain of Fair Fortune · The Warlock's Hairy Heart · The Tale of the Three Brothers · The Wizard and the Hopping Pot
Characters
Altheda · Amata · Amata's lover · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's enemy · Antioch Peverell's killer · Asha · Babbitty · Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Cadmus Peverell · Cadmus Peverell's fiancée · Captain of the Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Charlatan · Death · Evil Sorcerer · Gigantic white worm · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · King · Kinsfolk · Maiden · Old man · Old man's donkey · Old man's family · Peasant woman · Peasant woman's granddaughter · Sabre · Sir Luckless · Warlock · Warlock's family · The Warlock's friends · Wizard · Wizard's father · Young woman · Young woman's child
Objects
Altheda's potion · Altheda's wand · Cloak of Invisibility · Creepers · Crystal casket · Elder Wand · Enchanted garden · Fountain · Gold statue of Babbitty · Hairy Heart · The Hopping Pot · Never-ending hill · Poisonous toadstool · Poultice for warts · Resurrection Stone · Silver chalice