Callidora Longbottom (née Black)
Biographical information
Born
1915[1]
Blood status
Pure-blood
Marital status
Married
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Skin colour
White
Relationship information
Family members
Arcturus Black II (father) †
Lysandra Black (mother)
Cedrella Weasley (younger sister)
Charis Crouch (younger sister) †
Septimus Weasley (brother-in-law)
Caspar Crouch (brother-in-law) †
Harfang Longbottom (husband)
Son
Daughter
Two nephews
Bilius (possible nephew) †
Arthur Weasley (nephew)
Nephew †
Bartemius Crouch Snr (possible nephew) †
Two nieces †
Sirius Black II (paternal uncle) †
Phineas Black (paternal uncle) †
Belvina Burke (paternal aunt) †
Cygnus Black II (paternal uncle) †
Hesper Black (paternal aunt by marriage)
Herbert Burke (paternal uncle by marriage)
Violetta Black (paternal aunt by marriage)
Arcturus Black III (paternal first cousin) †
Lycoris Black (paternal first cousin) †
Regulus Black I (paternal first cousin) †
Pollux Black (paternal first cousin) †
Cassiopeia Black (paternal first cousin) †
Marius Black (paternal first cousin) †
Dorea Potter (paternal first cousin) †
Male paternal cousins
Female paternal cousin
Phineas Nigellus Black (paternal grandfather) †
Ursula Black (paternal grandmother)
Mr Longbottom (possibly) †
Algie Longbottom (possibly)
Frank Longbottom (possibly)
Neville Longbottom (possibly)
House of Black
Longbottom family (in-laws)
Romances
Harfang Longbottom (husband)
Affiliation
House
Slytherin[3]
Loyalty
House of Black
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Slytherin
Longbottom family
[Source]
Callidora Longbottom (née Black) (b. 1915) was a pure-blood witch, the eldest daughter of Arcturus Black II and Lysandra Yaxley and sister of Charis and Cedrella. She married Harfang Longbottom, and the couple had two children, a son and a daughter.[1] She is related to the Crouch and Weasley families through her sisters, and may be related to Mr Longbottom and his son and grandson.
Contents
1 Etymology
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Etymology
Callidora means "gift of beauty" in Greek.[4] It is also the name of a species of sedge moths.
Behind the scenes
Callidora's sister Cedrella was disowned by their family for marrying Septimus Weasley, a "blood traitor". Given that Callidora was not burned off the Black family tree tapestry for her marriage, this suggests that the Longbottoms are considered to be a more "respectable" pure-blood family than Weasleys. Interestingly, the Longbottom family would be seen as "blood traitors" now because they opposed Voldemort's reign and the notion of blood purity.
Since Callidora and Cassiopeia were born in the same year, it is most likely that they were classmates at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Callidora's and Elladora's pictures on the family tree in the film are the same.
Callidora was not featured on the Longbottom family tree shown on Pottermore.
As Callidora and her sisters Cedrella and Charis were born between 1915 and 1919, they would have been three of the many first ever Slytherins Horace Slughorn taught when he became Potions teacher in 1931.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears on Black family tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 Black family tree
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑ In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 4, Horace Slughorn states: "The whole Black family had been in my house, but Sirius ended up in Gryffindor!" This implies that all Blacks except Sirius were sorted into Slytherin while Slughorn was teaching at Hogwarts. As revealed in Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies, Chapter 3 (Horace Slughorn), Slughorn had "completed half a century of service" at the time of his retirement in 1981, meaning he started teaching there circa 1931. Callidora, born in 1915, presumably attended Hogwarts from 1926 to 1933, and thus would have been a student of Slughorn for at least part of her time at Hogwarts.
↑ Behind the Name: Callidora