"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Caspar Crouch's son
Biographical information
Died
Before 1995[1]
Blood status
Pure-blood
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Skin colour
White
Relationship information
Family members
Caspar Crouch (father) †
Charis Crouch (née Black) (mother) †
Sisters
Callidora Longbottom (née Black) (maternal aunt)
Cedrella Weasley (née Black) (maternal aunt)
Harfang Longbottom (maternal uncle by marriage)
Septimus Weasley (maternal uncle by marriage)
Male maternal cousin
Female maternal cousin
Male maternal cousins
Bilius (possible maternal cousin) †
Arthur Weasley (maternal first cousin)
Possible paternal grandfather †
Arcturus Black II (maternal grandfather) †
Lysandra Black (née Yaxley) (maternal grandmother)
Crouch family
House of Black
Affiliation
Loyalty
Crouch family
House of Black
[Source]
The only son of Caspar Crouch and Charis Black was a pure-blood wizard.[2] He had two sisters.
Behind the scenes
It is possible that Caspar Crouch's son was Bartemius Crouch Snr, who is described as an "elderly man" at the 1994 Quidditch World Cup. This is supported by the fact that he and his son were the last of their family. However, his mother Charis was born in 1919, so, assuming she had her son after reaching the age of majority, the earliest he could have been born was 1936. This would make it unlikely that he would be described as "elderly" in 1994. But Rowling wrote all but the first chapter of Goblet of Fire in the third-person limited point-of-view, which means that the description of Crouch as "elderly" actually represents Harry Potter's perception. A 58-year-old man might appear "elderly" to a 14-year-old boy, and it is also quite plausible that the tribulations Crouch went through during the First Wizarding War would have prematurely aged him. Also, terms like "elderly" can be loosely used, without kind of mathematical rigour, especially by young people; for instance, Walburga Black in her portrait was described as "old", despite not being more than sixty years old when the portrait was made.[3] It should be noted, however, that two people featured on the Black family tree become fathers at the age of thirteen; whether that was a mathematical mistake on Rowling's part or not is unclear, but Charis and her son might have been intended to be older than they appear to be.
If Caspar Crouch's son is Barty Crouch Snr, then, through the Black family, Barty Crouch and Arthur Weasley are first cousins (both sharing Arcturus Black and Lysandra Yaxley as maternal grandparents) and, by extension, Crouch's personal assistant Percy Weasley is his first cousin once removed. This relationship, if true, is not mentioned at all in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
Appearances
J. K. Rowling Official Site
Notes and references
↑ In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - Chapter 36 (The Parting of the Ways), Dumbledore refers to Bartemius Crouch Jnr as "the last remaining member of a pure-blood family as old as any" meaning that all other members of the family are dead by 1995.
↑ Black family tree
↑ Black family tree