Charis Crouch (née Black)
Biographical information
Born
1919[1]
Died
1973[1] (aged 53 - 54)
Blood status
Pure-blood[1]
Marital status
Married
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Female[1]
Skin colour
White
Relationship information
Family members
Arcturus Black II (father) †
Lysandra Black (mother)
Callidora Longbottom (older sister)
Cedrella Weasley (older sister)
Caspar Crouch (husband) †
Son †
Two daughters †
Bartemius Crouch Snr (possible son) †
Mrs Crouch (possible daughter-in-law) †
Harfang Longbottom (brother-in-law)
Septimus Weasley (brother-in-law)
Nephew
Niece
Nephews
Arthur Weasley (nephew)
Bilius (possible nephew) †
Sirius Black II (paternal uncle) †
Phineas Black (paternal uncle) †
Belvina Burke (paternal aunt) †
Cygnus Black II (paternal uncle) †
Hesper Black (paternal aunt by marriage)
Violetta Black (née Bulstrode) (paternal aunt by marriage)
Arcturus Black III (paternal first cousin) †
Lycoris Black (paternal first cousin) †
Regulus Black I (paternal first cousin) †
Pollux Black (paternal first cousin) †
Cassiopeia Black (paternal first cousin) †
Marius Black (paternal first cousin) †
Dorea Potter (paternal first cousin) †
Male paternal cousins
Female paternal cousin
Phineas Nigellus Black (paternal grandfather) †
Ursula Black (née Flint) (paternal grandmother)
Bartemius Crouch Jr (possible grandson) †
House of Black
Crouch family
Affiliation
House
Slytherin[3]
Loyalty
House of Black[1]
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Slytherin
Crouch family
[Source]
Charis Crouch (née Black) (1919 – 1973) was a pure-blood witch, the third daughter of Arcturus Black and Lysandra Yaxley and sister of Callidora and Cedrella. She was married to Caspar Crouch, and produced three children: a son and two daughters.[1]
Charis may be the mother of Barty Crouch Snr, although this has not been confirmed. Through her disowned sister Cedrella, she is a maternal aunt of Arthur Weasley[4] and a relative of the Weasley family, and through her other sister Callidora, she is related to the Longbottom family.
Contents
1 Etymology
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Etymology
Charis is named after the Charites on Wikipedia (singular Charis), the Greek goddesses of charm and beauty. The Greek charis means "grace, kindness."
Like her mother Lysandra and her sister Callidora, Charis is named after a type of butterfly or moth, specifically a butterfly genus of the Riodinini tribe.
There is an asteroid called 627 Charis on Wikipedia which was discovered on 4 March 1907 (twelve years before Charis's birth); this connects her to the Black family's history of astrological names.
Behind the scenes
On the left side of the family tree, where are depicted ancient ancestors, we can see Phoebe Black, whose face is similar to Charis. The production team simply recycled Charis's face to save time, as they did with Elladora and Callidora.
As she was born in 1919, she would have been one of Horace Slughorn's first ever Slytherin students, as he became Potions Master in 1931. Depending on when in 1919 she was born, she would have been a first or second year.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears on Black family tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Black family tree
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑ In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 4, Horace Slughorn states: "The whole Black family had been in my house, but Sirius ended up in Gryffindor!" This implies that all Blacks except Sirius were sorted into Slytherin while Slughorn was teaching at Hogwarts. As revealed in Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies, Chapter 3 (Horace Slughorn), Slughorn had "completed half a century of service" at the time of his retirement in 1981, meaning he started teaching there circa 1931. Charis, born in 1919, presumably attended Hogwarts from 1930 to 1937, and thus would have been a student of Slughorn for at least part of her time at Hogwarts.
↑ Although it has never been confirmed that Septimus and Cedrella are Arthur's parents, this can be inferred based on Sirius Black's statement in Ch. 6 of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix that Arthur was "something like [his] second cousin once removed." The Black family tree establishes Cedrella as a first cousin once removed of both Orion and Walburga Black, Sirius's parents. Thus, any children she had would be their second cousins, and second cousins once removed from their sons Sirius and Regulus. Also, almost all of Sirius's relatives can be seen on the Black family tree because both his parents were born into the House of Black, making it unlikely that he could be related to Arthur in a way not shown. See also this talk page and an HPL essay at for more information.