"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot in 1544
Biographical information
Title(s)
Chief Warlock
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Hair colour
Bald (brown wig)
Skin colour
Light
Affiliation
Occupation
Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot
Loyalty
British Ministry of Magic
Wizengamot
[Source]
This individual was a British wizard who, in 1544, held the post of Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot.[1]
Biography
On 16 July, 1544, the Chief Warlock was invited by Jarleth Hobart to witness his "maiden flight" — a public demonstration of his own revolutionary Levitation Charm on himself. Hobart climbed onto the roof of his local church and, after several speeches and a rousing performance of the national anthem he leapt and, having cast the spell, was left hovering in mid-air. At first, he seemed to have succeeded[1] but, after having spent nearly three minutes watching him hanging in mid-air, the crowd grew impatient to see him move somewhere, and booed him.
In response to the catcalls, Hobart tried to move in midair, and started performing vigorous swimming movements, which produced no effect. Mistakingly believing that his clothes were making him heavier and impeding his movement, Hobart stripped thus making him fall ten feet onto the ground below, as it were the clothes that were holding him up in the air — they had been charmed by the Levitation Charm, not Hobart himself. He fell completely naked on the ground, breaking sixteen bones, and went on the receive a fine for "outrageous silliness" from the Chief Warlock.
Hobart returned home, humiliated, where he realised that his spell could make objects levitate for varying lengths of time, depending on the skill of the spellcaster and on the weight of the object. He also concluded that small animals or even children could be levitated, but that they had no control whatsoever of their movement once airborne.
After realising that the spell was best used on inanimate objects (and small animals, but they do not have any control of their movement once airborne), Hobart made a second announcement, and an even larger crowd gathered to see his second demonstration of the spell (hoping for another laugh at his expense). Hobart's demonstration was, at first, by far more successful than the first one: he showed the onlookers how he could easily levitate objects ranging from small rocks to fallen trees. Hobart decided that, for a finale, we would levitate the Chief Warlock's hat — what he managed to levitate, however, was the Chief's wig, exposing his bald head to the gathered crowd. The Chief was not amused, and was determined to duel Hobart, but the warlock levitated the Chief's robes over his head, and ran for it.
Appearances
Wonderbook: Book of Spells (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 "Wonderbook - E3 2012: Game Debut" from GameTrailers