Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Circus Arcanus House Elf
Biographical information
Born
Pre 1927
Physical information
Species
House-elf[1]
Gender
Male[2]
Affiliation
Occupation
Servant in the Circus Arcanus[3]
Loyalty
Skender[3]
[Source]
This male house-elf worked at Circus Arcanus, a travelling freak show in the 1920s.[3][1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Magical abilities and skills
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
The House-elf packs up the Circus and leaves with Skender
This house elf was employed by the wizard Skender as a personal servant to help him with the running of the Circus Arcanus. Following the riot which broke out in the circus in 1927 Paris, due to Credence Barebone releasing some caged Firedrakes which subsequently burned down the circus, this House-elf used his magic to assist in master in packing up the circus equipment in Skender's trunk and leaving the city by carriage.[3]
During the 2020s, he appeared as a Foundable during the Calamity. Volunteer members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force were able to free him, allowing him to return to his original time.[1]
Magical abilities and skills
House-elf magic: Being a house-elf, he could perform magic without a wand or incantations, which allowed him to effortlessly use magic to help pack up the Circus Arcanus equipment for his master.[3]
Apparition: This house-elf could also apparate at will.[3]
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 2 images related to Circus Arcanus house-elf.
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay (First appearance)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 Harry Potter: Wizards Unite "Brilliant Event: Circus Calamitous"
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (See this image)
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay