Dorea Potter (née Black)
Biographical information
Born
1920
Died
1977 (aged 56-57)
Blood status
Pure-blood
Marital status
Married
Nationality
British or Irish[1]
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Hair colour
Blonde[2]
Skin colour
Light
Relationship information
Family members
Cygnus Black II (father) †
Violetta Black (mother)
Pollux Black (older brother) †
Cassiopeia Black (older sister) †
Marius Black (older brother)
Charlus Potter (husband) †
Son
Irma Black (sister-in-law)
Walburga Black (niece) †
Alphard Black (nephew) †
Cygnus Black III (nephew) †
Sirius Black II (paternal uncle) †
Phineas Black (paternal uncle) †
Arcturus Black II (paternal uncle) †
Belvina Burke (paternal aunt) †
Hesper Black (paternal aunt by marriage)
Lysandra Black (paternal aunt by marriage)
Herbert Burke (paternal uncle by marriage)
Arcturus Black III (paternal first cousin) †
Lycoris Black (paternal first cousin) †
Regulus Black I (paternal first cousin) †
Callidora Longbottom (paternal first cousin)
Cedrella Weasley (paternal first cousin)
Charis Crouch (paternal first cousin) †
Two male first cousins
Female first cousin
Phineas Nigellus Black (paternal grandfather) †
Ursula Black (née Flint) (paternal grandmother)
James Potter (possible relative) †
Harry Potter (possible relative)
House of Black
Bulstrode family
Potter family
Romances
Charlus Potter (husband)
Affiliation
House
Slytherin[3]
Loyalty
House of Black
Bulstrode family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Slytherin
Potter family
[Source]
Dorea Potter (née Black) (1920 – 1977) was a pure-blood witch, the youngest child of Cygnus Black II and Violetta Bulstrode and sister of Pollux Black, Cassiopeia Black, and Marius Black. She attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry where she was sorted into Slytherin House.
Contents
1 Biography
2 Etymology
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Biography
Dorea attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry where she was sorted into Slytherin House from c. 1931-1938.
Sometime after Hogwarts, she married Charlus Potter and they together had one son. Dorea was the paternal aunt of Alphard, Cygnus, and Walburga Black, thus she is the great-aunt of Sirius Black III and Regulus Black II, as well as Bellatrix Lestrange, Andromeda Tonks, and Narcissa Malfoy.[4] As well as this, Dorea is the great-great aunt of Draco Malfoy and Nymphadora Tonks and the great-great-great aunt of Scorpius Malfoy and Ted Lupin. Also, she is possibly related to James Potter and his son, Harry Potter.
Etymology
The name Dorea may come from the names Dora ("gift") or Dorothy, which mean "to see a gift" in Greek (as opposed to "Theodora" which means "a gift from god" in Greek), or from dory, a type of small boat. The name "Dora" appears before Dorea: her great-aunt was named Elladora and her cousin was named Callidora.
Dorea can come from Irish Doireann, which means "sullen" or "daughter of Fionn". Fionn means "fair, white." "Sullen" and "fair, white" can relate to many of the Black family's traits.
Black can be considered a colour, and is the result of the absence of, or complete absorption of, light. In Western culture, the colour black has typically been associated with evil, darkness, and witchcraft, but also with prestige and sophistication — appropriate for the House of Black. Black has also been associated with life and prosperity by other cultures. In ancient China, black was the symbol of the element of water, which also corresponds to Slytherin, the Hogwarts house of almost all members of the Black family. In English heraldry, black represents darkness and ignorance; a possible allusion to the prejudice common to members of the House of Black.
However, the English word black is derived from either the Old English blœc, meaning "black", or blac, meaning "pale".Pallor is associated with sickness and the colour white, which is usually held to symbolise purity in Western and Indian culture, and death in East Asian cultures. This mirrors the typical colouring of members of the House of Black — dark hair and pale skin.
Dorea's married surname is Potter. Potter is a very common surname of English origin. It traditionally refers to the occupation of making pottery. Beatrix Potter was a well-known English children's author. Potter's Field is the name for a burial ground for the unknown or unclaimed dead, particularly soldiers and orphans; it is first mentioned in the Gospel of Matthew. The Potter family had many members that fit that description. The Potter Box is a model for making ethical decisions developed at Harvard University. J. K. Rowling has also commented that she has liked this name since childhood, due to a relationship with two friends who were named Ian and Vikki Potter.
Behind the scenes
There was some speculation that Dorea Potter was the mother of James Potter and so the paternal grandmother of Harry Potter. However, the actual names of James's parents were revealed to be Fleamont and Euphemia Potter, via Pottermore.[5] In spite of this, it is still more than likely that Dorea was possibly an aunt or a cousin by marriage of James.
Dorea was not featured on the Potter family tree on Pottermore. She does, however, appear on the Black Family tree that was released.
Her first cousin Cedrella Black married the "blood traitor" Septimus Weasley and was disowned, but Dorea Black married Charlus Potter but was not disowned thus implying that the Potter family was a "respectable" pure-blood family. Many families who various members of the House of Black married into would now be seen as blood-traitors such as the Longbottoms, the Macmillans and the Prewetts.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears on Black family tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)
Notes and references
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑ Her blonde hair can be seen in her tapestry picture.
↑ In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 4, Horace Slughorn states: "The whole Black family had been in my house, but Sirius ended up in Gryffindor!" This implies that all Blacks except Sirius were sorted into Slytherin while Slughorn was teaching at Hogwarts. As revealed in Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies, Chapter 3 (Horace Slughorn), Slughorn had "completed half a century of service" at the time of his retirement in 1981, meaning he started teaching there circa 1931. Dorea, born in 1920, presumably attended Hogwarts from 1931 to 1938 or 1932 to 1939, and thus would have been a student of Slughorn.
↑ Black Family tree
↑ Writing by J.K. Rowling: "The Potter Family" at Wizarding World