Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
"Is this all real? Or has this been happening inside my head?"
The topic of this article is of a real-life subject that has been mentioned "in-universe" in a canon source. The Harry Potter Wiki is written from the perspective that all information presented in canon is true (e.g., Hogwarts really existed), and, as such, details contained in this article may differ from real world facts.
Dzou Yen
Biographical information
Born
4th century B.C.,
China[1]
Nationality
Chinese[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Hair colour
Black[1]
Eye colour
Dark[1]
Skin colour
Olive[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Alchemist[1]
[Source]
Dzou Yen (fl. 4th century B.C.) was a Chinese wizard, famous for his work on alchemy. For this, Yen was featured on a golden Chocolate Frog Card.[1]
Behind the scenes
Zou Yan (also known as Dzou Yen or Tsou Yen, 305 BC - 240 BC) was a Chinese mystic who lived in the state of Qi during Spring and Autumn Period, an era of political turmoil preceding the total collapse of the Zhou Dynasty. He is considered one of the founders of Chinese scientific thought. He is credited with refining the theories of the Five Elements and Yin and Yang, though his writings are now lost. The main account of his life comes from Sima Qian's Records of the Grand Historian.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game)
Chocolate Frog Cards
Gold cards
Armando Dippet · Albus Dumbledore · Barberus Bragge · Bertie Bott · Carlotta Pinkstone · Dzou Yen · Godric Gryffindor · Hermione Granger · Herpo the Foul · Helga Hufflepuff · Harry Potter · Montague Knightley · Phillipus von Hohenheim · Roderick Plumpton · Rowena Ravenclaw · Ronald Weasley · Salazar Slytherin
Silver cards
Alberic Grunnion · Alberta Toothill · Andros the Invincible · Artemisia Lufkin · Blenheim Stalk · Bowman Wright · Chauncey Oldridge · Circe · Cliodna · Crispin Cronk · Cyprian Youdle · Daisy Dodderidge · Derwent Shimpling · Donaghan Tremlett · Dunbar Oglethorpe · Dymphna Furmage · Elfrida Clagg · Felix Summerbee · Fulbert the Fearful · Gaspard Shingleton · Gideon Crumb · Glenda Chittock · Gondoline Oliphant · Gregory the Smarmy · Gwenog Jones · Honoria Nutcombe · Ignatia Wildsmith · Joscelind Wadcock · Kirley Duke · Laverne de Montmorency · Leopoldina Smethwyck · Maeve · Mirabella Plunkett · Mopsus · Morgan le Fay · Oswald Beamish · Sacharissa Tugwood · Thaddeus Thurkell · Thurkell brothers · Wendelin the Weird · Xavier Rastrick
Bronze cards
Adalbert Waffling · Almeric Sawbridge · Archibald Alderton · Balfour Blane · Beatrix Bloxam · Beaumont Marjoribanks · Bridget Wenlock · Burdock Muldoon · Cassandra Vablatsky · Celestina Warbeck · Cornelius Agrippa · Devlin Whitehorn · Dorcas Wellbeloved · Edgar Stroulger · Elladora Ketteridge · Ethelred the Ever-Ready · Flavius Belby · Gifford Ollerton · Glanmore Peakes · Glover Hipworth · Greta Catchlove · Grogan Stump · Gulliver Pokeby · Gunhilda de Gorsemoor · Havelock Sweeting · Hengist of Woodcroft · Heathcote Barbary · Herman Wintringham · Hesper Starkey · Jocunda Sykes · Justus Pilliwickle · Merlin · Merton Graves · Merwyn the Malicious · Miranda Goshawk · Mungo Bonham · Musidora Barkwith · Myron Wagtail · Newton Scamander · Norvel Twonk · Orsino Thruston · Perpetua Fancourt · Quong Po · Roland Kegg · Stoddard Withers · Tilly Toke · Uric the Oddball · Yardley Platt
Famous Vampires cards
Blodwyn Bludd · Vlad Drakul · Amarillo Lestoat · Carmilla Sanguina · Herbert Varney
Famous Hags cards
Babayaga · Malodora Grymm · Old Mother Hubbard · Cordelia Misericordia · Leticia Somnolens
Famous Giants cards
Bran the Bloodthirsty · Cyclops · Goliath · Morholt · Hengist of Upper Barnton
Famous Goblins cards
Alguff the Awful · Eargit the Ugly · Gringott · Ug the Unreliable · Urg the Unclean
Dragon cards
Common Welsh Green · Hebridean Black · Hungarian Horntail · Norwegian Ridgeback · Romanian Longhorn
Beast cards
Billywig · Bowtruckle · Doxy · Double-ended Newt · Giant Purple Toad · Giant Squid · Gnome · Gytrash · Imp · Kelpie · Manticore · Mountain Troll · Streeler · Phoenix · Unicorn