"Harry, your eyesight really is awful."
The title of this article is transcribed from an image. Due to several factors, including poor image quality and difficult-to-read fonts/handwriting, it may have been transcribed incorrectly. If you have a higher quality version of the source image, or a more accurate reading of the text, please visit this article's Talk Page.
E. L. Filhus
Physical information
Species
Human
Affiliation
Occupation
Editor of the The New York Ghost
Loyalty
The New York Ghost
[Source]
E. L. Filhus was the editor for The New York Ghost in the 1920s.[1][2]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
In the 1 December 1926 issue, Filhus wrote an editorial about the threat Gellert Grindelwald posed to the United States, titled "MACUSA... is the USA ready?".[2][3]
An editorial of theirs, entitled "Grindelwald's Stratagem? World Domination?", appeared in the 6 December sunrise edition.[4] In the day's sunset edition, Filhus wrote a report about an address that Seraphina Picquery, the President of MACUSA, was slated to give to the "fearful" American wizarding community.[1] An editorial of theirs on an unknown subject was published in the same issue.[1]
They wrote a report, published in the 7 December 1926 sunset edition, about how President Picquery was calling for Aurors to be on "full alert" because foreign wizarding powers had not yet committed to helping deal with the recent secrecy breaches in New York.[5] This issue also featured an editorial by them on an unknown subject.[5]
Behind the scenes
This character may have been named after Eduardo Lima, a graphic artist who worked on every Harry Potter film from Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban onward.
Appearances
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 J. K. Rowling's Wizarding World: Movie Magic Volume One: Extraordinary People and Fascinating Places (see this image)
↑
2.0 2.1 Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (see this image)
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (see this image)
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (see this image)
↑
5.0 5.1 The Case of Beasts: Explore the Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (see this image)