Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
"Point me!"
This article is about the once-Chieftainess of the Wizards' Council. You may be looking for a witch whose portrait hung at the Headquarters of the Ministry of Magic.
Elfrida Clagg
Biographical information
Born
1612[1][2]
Died
1687 (aged 74-75)[1][2]
Nationality
British[1]
Title(s)
Chieftainess[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Female[1]
Hair colour
Green in youth[3]
Grey in old age[1]
Eye colour
Green[1]
Skin colour
White[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Chieftainess of the Wizards' Council[1]
Loyalty
Wizards' Council[1]
[Source]
Chieftainess Elfrida Clagg (1612 - 1687) was a British witch and the Chieftainess of the Wizards' Council either in the fourteenth[4] or seventeenth century.[1] Either way, she was Burdock Muldoon's immediate successor of the post.[4]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 As Chieftainess of the Wizards' Council
2 Etymology
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
It is debated whether Clagg was born in 1612 or about one or two centuries earlier. She presumably attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in her youth, like so many other witches.
As Chieftainess of the Wizards' Council
Elfrida Clagg, as depicted in her Chocolate Frog Card
Clagg was Burdock Muldoon's successor on the post of Chief of the Wizards' Council. Madame Clagg attempted to redefine the classification of Beings and Beasts by declaring that all those magical creatures that could speak the human tongue were Beings. However, this once more caused problems with the beings meeting as the Trolls were again classified as Beings and destroyed the meeting chamber, Jarveys were in attendance and tore as many Council members' ankles as they could, and the Centaurs boycotted the meeting as the Merpeople were not invited. A large delegation of ghosts also attended, but left in disgust of what they later called "the Council's unashamed emphasis on the needs of the living as opposed to the wishes of the dead".[4]
Also, due to the declining numbers of Golden Snidgets, Clagg made them a protected species, and outlawed both their hunting, and their use in Quidditch matches.[5]
Etymology
"Elfrida" is from the Old English name Ælfþryð meaning "elf strength" from the element ælf combined with þryð "strength". Ælfþryð was a 10th-century queen of England. This name was rare after the Norman conquest, but it was revived in the 19th century.
Behind the scenes
In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, a portrait of a witch called "Elfrida Cragg" is said to be stationed in the British Ministry of Magic Headquarters.[6] It is possible that this individual's name is a misspelling of Elfrida Clagg.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 11 images related to Elfrida Clagg.
Elfrida Clagg immortalised on a silver Chocolate Frog Card
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Possibly Mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Exploding Snap Famous Wizards Card)
Quidditch Through the Ages
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them
J. K. Rowling's official site
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 1.11 J. K. Rowling's official site
↑
2.0 2.1 Pottermore: Timeline.
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game)
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them - What is a Beast?
↑ Quidditch Through the Ages, Chapter 4 (The Arrival of the Golden Snitch)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 22 (St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries)
Preceded by:
Burdock Muldoon Chieftainess of the Wizards' Council
Fourteenth or seventeenth century Succeeded by:
Unknown, possibly none
Chocolate Frog Cards
Gold cards
Armando Dippet · Albus Dumbledore · Barberus Bragge · Bertie Bott · Carlotta Pinkstone · Dzou Yen · Godric Gryffindor · Hermione Granger · Herpo the Foul · Helga Hufflepuff · Harry Potter · Montague Knightley · Phillipus von Hohenheim · Roderick Plumpton · Rowena Ravenclaw · Ronald Weasley · Salazar Slytherin
Silver cards
Alberic Grunnion · Alberta Toothill · Andros the Invincible · Artemisia Lufkin · Blenheim Stalk · Bowman Wright · Chauncey Oldridge · Circe · Cliodna · Crispin Cronk · Cyprian Youdle · Daisy Dodderidge · Derwent Shimpling · Donaghan Tremlett · Dunbar Oglethorpe · Dymphna Furmage · Elfrida Clagg · Felix Summerbee · Fulbert the Fearful · Gaspard Shingleton · Gideon Crumb · Glenda Chittock · Gondoline Oliphant · Gregory the Smarmy · Gwenog Jones · Honoria Nutcombe · Ignatia Wildsmith · Joscelind Wadcock · Kirley Duke · Laverne de Montmorency · Leopoldina Smethwyck · Maeve · Mirabella Plunkett · Mopsus · Morgan le Fay · Oswald Beamish · Sacharissa Tugwood · Thaddeus Thurkell · Thurkell brothers · Wendelin the Weird · Xavier Rastrick
Bronze cards
Adalbert Waffling · Almeric Sawbridge · Archibald Alderton · Balfour Blane · Beatrix Bloxam · Beaumont Marjoribanks · Bridget Wenlock · Burdock Muldoon · Cassandra Vablatsky · Celestina Warbeck · Cornelius Agrippa · Devlin Whitehorn · Dorcas Wellbeloved · Edgar Stroulger · Elladora Ketteridge · Ethelred the Ever-Ready · Flavius Belby · Gifford Ollerton · Glanmore Peakes · Glover Hipworth · Greta Catchlove · Grogan Stump · Gulliver Pokeby · Gunhilda de Gorsemoor · Havelock Sweeting · Hengist of Woodcroft · Heathcote Barbary · Herman Wintringham · Hesper Starkey · Jocunda Sykes · Justus Pilliwickle · Merlin · Merton Graves · Merwyn the Malicious · Miranda Goshawk · Mungo Bonham · Musidora Barkwith · Myron Wagtail · Newton Scamander · Norvel Twonk · Orsino Thruston · Perpetua Fancourt · Quong Po · Roland Kegg · Stoddard Withers · Tilly Toke · Uric the Oddball · Yardley Platt
Famous Vampires cards
Blodwyn Bludd · Vlad Drakul · Amarillo Lestoat · Carmilla Sanguina · Herbert Varney
Famous Hags cards
Babayaga · Malodora Grymm · Old Mother Hubbard · Cordelia Misericordia · Leticia Somnolens
Famous Giants cards
Bran the Bloodthirsty · Cyclops · Goliath · Morholt · Hengist of Upper Barnton
Famous Goblins cards
Alguff the Awful · Eargit the Ugly · Gringott · Ug the Unreliable · Urg the Unclean
Dragon cards
Common Welsh Green · Hebridean Black · Hungarian Horntail · Norwegian Ridgeback · Romanian Longhorn
Beast cards
Billywig · Bowtruckle · Doxy · Double-ended Newt · Giant Purple Toad · Giant Squid · Gnome · Gytrash · Imp · Kelpie · Manticore · Mountain Troll · Streeler · Phoenix · Unicorn