Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Emeric the Evil
Biographical information
Born
Middle Ages[1]
Died
Middle Ages[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Magical characteristics
Wand
Elder, Thestral tail hair core[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Dark Arts[1]
[Source]
"Binns droned on and on while they scribbled down names and dates and got Emeric the Evil and Uric the Oddball mixed up."
— Description[src]
Emeric the Evil[2] was a short-lived but exceptionally aggressive Dark Wizard from the Middle Ages.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Magical abilities and skills
3 Etymology
4 Behind the scenes
5 Appearances
6 Notes and references
Biography
During his lifetime, he was once the master of the Elder Wand. With it, he terrorised the south of England in the early Middle Ages. He was "slaughtered" in a ferocious duel against Egbert the Egregious.[1]
During their History of Magic lessons with Professor Binns at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, first year students often mixed up Emeric the Evil with Uric the Oddball.[2] The seventh year History of Magic curriculum also covered Emeric the Evil, at least in the 1990–1991 school year.[3]
Magical abilities and skills
Dark Arts: Emeric the Evil was a profilic Dark Wizard who would have been accomplished with dark magic, likely including the casting of dark charms. It is said that he terrorised Southern England in the early Middle Ages, which he likely did using the Dark Arts.[1]
Duelling: Having gained ownership of the legendary Elder Wand, Emeric was an aggressive wizard with a proclivity for duelling and martial magic; however, he was defeated and killed in a duel with Egbert the Egregious, meaning he was an inferior duellist to him.[1]
Care of Magical Creatures: Emeric was capable of flying a dragon-like creature, an extremely dangerous looking magical beast, showing he was to an extent skilled with taming and controlling it.[4]
Etymology
The name "Emeric" is a Germanic name, in which the second element is ric meaning "power". The first element may be ermen "whole, universal" (making it a relative of Ermenrich), amal "work, labour" (making it a relative of Amalric) or heim "home" (making it a relative of Henry). It is likely that several forms merged into a single name.
Behind the scenes
In The Tales of Beedle the Bard: Illustrated Edition, Chris Riddell depicts Emeric the Evil riding an unnamed dragon-like creature, which is unnamed in the text, it is only shown in the illustration of him. This is not stated in the original version of The Tales of Beedle the Bard either. The nature of this dragon is also unknown.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 2 images related to Emeric the Evil.
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Mentioned only)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (First appearance)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 The Tales of Beedle the Bard (real) - Albus Dumbledore on "The Tale of the Three Brothers"
↑
2.0 2.1 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 8 (The Potions Master)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 2 (More Questions Than Answers) - History of Magic Lesson "Emeric the Evil"
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard: Illustrated Edition
Preceded by:
Unknown, eventually Antioch Peverell's killer Master of the Elder Wand
Succeeded by:
Egbert the Egregious
Known owners of the Deathly Hallows
Elder Wand
Death (Manufacturer) · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's killer · Emeric the Evil · Egbert the Egregious · Godelot · Hereward · Barnabas Deverill · Loxias · Arcus and/or Livius · Mykew Gregorovitch · Gellert Grindelwald · Albus Dumbledore · Draco Malfoy (Master Only) · Tom Riddle (Owner Only) · Harry Potter · (Interred)
Resurrection Stone
Death (Manufacturer) · Cadmus Peverell · Unidentified Gaunt · (Generations of Gaunts) · Corvinus Gaunt · Marvolo Gaunt · Morfin Gaunt · Tom Riddle · Albus Dumbledore · Harry Potter · (Lost)
Cloak of Invisibility
Death (Manufacturer) · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · Iolanthe Potter · Unidentified Potter · (Generations of Potters) · Henry Potter · Fleamont Potter · James Potter · Albus Dumbledore (Owner Only) · Harry Potter · James S. Potter · Albus Potter