Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
"Is this all real? Or has this been happening inside my head?"
The topic of this article is of a real-life subject that has been mentioned "in-universe" in a canon source. The Harry Potter Wiki is written from the perspective that all information presented in canon is true (e.g., Hogwarts really existed), and, as such, details contained in this article may differ from real world facts.
"Ho, ho, ho. Merry christmas. Ho, ho, ho."
— An Enchanted Father Christmas figurine speaking in the style of Father Christmas[src]
An enchanted Father Christmas figurine at 12 Grimmauld Place in 1995
Father Christmas (also known as Santa Claus or simply Santa) is a mythological figure associated with Christmas, who is typically portrayed as a jolly old man with a long, white beard.[1]
Contents
1 History
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
History
A Father Christmas statue on display at Ginzberg Delaunay in December 1926
A statue of Father Christmas was on display at the Ginzberg Delaunay department store in New York in December 1926.[2]
Ronald Weasley remarked that the Muggle perception of garden gnomes resembled traditional depictions of Father Christmas while real gnomes looked quite different.[3]
Rubeus Hagrid was described as presenting his idea of having the students in Care of Magical Creatures class come down on alternate evenings to observe the Blast-Ended Skrewts and make notes about their extraordinary behaviour "with the air of Father Christmas pulling an extra-large toy out of his sack."[4]
In December 1995, while Harry Potter was staying at 12 Grimmauld Place at over the Christmas holidays, an enchanted father christmas toy on a broomstick flew around the house.[5] The stuffed house-elf heads on the walls of the stairs leading to the upper floor were also adorned with "Father Christmas hats and beards."[6]
Behind the scenes
The U.S. edition of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets published by Scholastic uses the name "Santa Claus".
In LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 the 12 Grimmauld Place model has LEGO-Albus Dumbledore like traits.
There is a widely-discussed theory (attributed to redditor TheSortingSombrero) that Father Christmas is a wizard, that he uses Floo Powder to get down the fireplaces, that he uses a Time-Turner to get his presents delivered in one night and has the Philosopher's Stone to be immortal and to pay for the presents.[7]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears as object)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Mentioned only)
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Appears as object)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 (Appears as object)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑ " Santa Claus on Wikipedia
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film)
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 3 (The Burrow)
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 15 (Beauxbatons and Durmstrang)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) - Chapter 18 (House of Black)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 23 (Christmas on the Closed Ward)
↑ THEORY: Santa is Actually a Wizard from "Harry Potter" from Seventeen.com