Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Forest Troll at the Forest Lake
Physical information
Species
Forest Troll[1]
Gender
Male (possibly)[2]
Hair colour
Green[1]
Eye colour
Green[1]
Skin colour
Green[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Forbidden Forest[1]
[Source]
This Forest Troll resided in the Forbidden Forest in the 1980s.[1]
Biography
During the 1987–1988 school year, this Forest Troll commonly picked the Bubotubers, which grew in a clearing in the Forest Grove, which it used as a food source. However, during the school year those were trampled by sleepwalking students affected by the curse of the Forest Vault. Therefore the troll began foraging for them near Forest Lake. It aggressively drove off anyone attempting to come near it when doing so, which caused a problem for the Forbidden Forest Centaur colony, who relied the lake as their main source of water.[1]
Near the end of the school year, the centaur Torvus tasked Jacob's sibling with dealing with the situation. Torvus was angry about how the curse, and the way the student had deal with it, had thrown off the balance of the forest. Therefore Torvus wanted Jacob's sibling to demonstrate that they could deal with the situation without making it worse, before trusting them again.[1]
Jacob's sibling and Charlie Weasley went to the lake and saw the Troll. Though their first instinct was to duel with it, fearing for their safety, they remembered what Torvus had said and attempted to communicate with it instead. It gestured with the Bubotuber in its hand, which they deduced meant that it didn't have enough.[1]
They investigated the clearing and discovered the damage. Deciding to attempt to plant more, they consulted with Professor Sprout in the Herbology Classroom about growing Bubotubers. They also met with Liz Tuttle in the greenhouse. After learning that it would take several weeks for the plants to grow naturally, they also consulted with Professor Flitwick about using the Herbivicus Charm to speed up the process.[1]
The three students returned to the clearing and used various pieces of the former supply of Bubotubers to plant a new field of them, using the charm and a supply of dragon dung fertiliser to quickly establish a new crop. They returned to the lake, just in time, as it was just about to fight with a Centaur, who was angry about the threat it posed to the colony. They lured it away with the Bubotubers that they had planted.[1]
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 7 images related to Forest Troll at the Forest Lake.
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, "TORVUS AND THE TROUBLED FOREST" Achievement
↑ Charlie calls it "Mr Troll", which might mean it is male.