Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
Genevieve Bladt
Biographical information
Died
After 2015 (possibly)[1]
Nationality
British
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Affiliation
Occupation
Member of the Department of Magical Artefacts
Loyalty
British Ministry of Magic
Department of Magical Artefacts
[Source]
The Daily Prophet reports the disappearance of Genevieve Bladt, among others
Genevieve Bladt was a British witch and one of the London Five.[2]
Biography
She mysteriously vanished sometime during the mid-to-late 2010s. Her disappearance occurred within a few hours of the other four Aurors. It was the first instance of people having gone mysteriously missing since the Second Wizarding War, and hence came as a great shock to the wizarding community of Great Britain at large. An investigation was launched by the British Ministry of Magic to try and locate Bladt and their fellow victims. As time passed, however, the Ministry met a dead end when the trail went cold, and it was generally felt by many that the chance of finding Bladt grew increasingly smaller, causing the despair of their family to increase and turn into outrage when the case was closed. As Gareth Greengrass indeed speculated, it is very likely that Bladt was deceased, as of 2018, though there was a small chance they were still alive.[2]
By at least the 2010s, during the Calamity, volunteer members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force investigated more into the Genevieve's life. They suspected her work with artefacts was related to her disappearance, but they didn't know why.[3]
Appearances
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑ Wizards Unite reveals she went missing in 2015, but it is unknown as to whether she died or not and is only being classified as missing instead of deceased. At least one person, Gareth Greengrass, believed she is dead.
↑
2.0 2.1 Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see this image)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite