"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
German-speaking woman
Biographical information
Died
1 September, 1997[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Female[1]
Relationship information
Family members
Two children †[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Her family[1]
[Source]
Voldemort: "Gregorovitch? I want Gregorovitch."
German woman: "Er wohnt hier nicht mehr! [He does not live here anymore!] He no live here! He no live here! I know him not!"
Voldemort: "Where is he?"
German woman: "Das weiß ich nicht! [I do not know!] He move! I know not, I know not!"
— Voldemort and the terrified German woman[src]
This unnamed German-speaking woman lived with her two young children in the former home of the wandmaker Mykew Gregorovitch, which had high, timber-framed gables and was described as looking like a gingerbread house.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
She was described to be laughing and had much humour in her face when she opened the door to her home one day in 1997. However, when she saw Lord Voldemort standing outside, her expression changed rapidly from happiness to terror.[1]
When Voldemort came to her door in search of Gregorovitch on 1 September, 1997, she told him that the wandmaker did not live there, and that she did not know him. She tried to close the door on him, but Voldemort forced his way into the household. The woman tried to shield her two children, but Voldemort nonetheless murdered all of them with the Killing Curse.[1]
Harry Potter was forced to witness the woman's misfortune of meeting with Voldemort due to his connections with the Dark Lord, and felt deeply miserable for the family.[1]
Behind the scenes
Although the woman's fluency in German and the architecture of her home strongly suggest she lived in Germany, she may have lived in another German-speaking region, such as Austria, Switzerland, or Liechtenstein. She might also have lived in a German speaking area or other German-speaking territory in the Czech Republic, Belgium, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Lithuania, Poland or former Yugoslavia, France or Italy.
The way she tried to protect her children is reminiscent of how Lily Potter tried to protect her son Harry, although the woman was not given the choice to step aside and save herself.
It is unknown if this woman and her family were Muggles or witches and wizards.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance) (Appears in vision(s))
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 12 (Magic is Might)