Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Harry Potter: Wizards Unite & Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Ginevra Molly Potter (née Weasley)
Biographical information
Born
11 August, 1981[1]
Great Britain[2]
Blood status
Pure-blood[3]
Marital status
Married[4]
Nationality
English
Also known as
Ginny (by family & friends)
Gin (by Harry Potter)[4]
Title(s)
Chaser
Seeker
Signature
Physical information
Species
Human[5]
Gender
Female[5]
Hair colour
Red[6]
Eye colour
Bright brown[7]
Skin colour
Light
Relationship information
Family members
Arthur Weasley[8] (father)
Molly Weasley[5] (mother)
Bill Weasley[5] (older brother)
Charlie Weasley[5] (older brother)
Percy Weasley[5] (older brother)
Fred Weasley[5] (older brother) †
George Weasley[5] (older brother)
Ron Weasley[5] (older brother)
Harry Potter[9] (husband)
James Potter II[9] (son)
Albus Potter[9] (son)
Lily Potter II[9] (daughter)
James Potter[9] (father-in-law) †
Lily Potter[9] (née Evans) (mother-in-law) †
Fleur Weasley[10] (née Delacour) (sister-in-law)
Hermione Granger[9] (sister-in-law)
Angelina Weasley[9] (née Johnson) (sister-in-law)
Audrey Weasley[9] (sister-in-law)
Fred Weasley II[11] (nephew)
Roxanne Weasley[11] (niece)
Victoire Weasley[12] (niece)
Dominique Weasley[11] (niece)
Louis Weasley[11] (nephew)
Rose Granger-Weasley[9][13] (niece)
Hugo Granger-Weasley[9][13] (nephew)
Molly Weasley II[11] (niece)
Lucy Weasley[11] (niece)
At least two paternal uncles
Bilius[14] (uncle) †
Uncle
Fabian Prewett[15] (maternal uncle) †
Gideon Prewett[15] (maternal uncle) †
Cousin
Muriel (great-aunt)
Septimus Weasley[16] (paternal grandfather) †
Cedrella Weasley[16] (née Black) (paternal grandmother) †
Mr Prewett[17] (maternal grandfather) †
Mrs Prewett[17] (maternal grandmother) †
Weasley family[17]
House of Black (distant relatives)
Romances
Harry Potter (husband)
Dean Thomas (ex-boyfriend)
Michael Corner (ex-boyfriend)
Magical characteristics
Boggart
Lord Voldemort[18]
Wand
Unknown length, Yew, unknown core[19]
Patronus
Horse[20]
Affiliation
Occupation
Chaser for the Holyhead Harpies[21] (formerly)
Senior Quidditch Correspondent for the Daily Prophet[21] (formerly)
Sports editor for the Daily Prophet
House
Gryffindor
Loyalty
Weasley family
Prewett family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Gryffindor
Gryffindor Quidditch team
Slug Club[10]
Dumbledore's Army[15]
Order of the Phoenix
Potter family
Holyhead Harpies[21]
Daily Prophet[21]
[Source]
"Yeah, size is no guarantee of power. Look at Ginny..."
— Ginny's impressive Bat-Bogey Hex[src]
Ginevra[9] Molly[22] "Ginny" Potter[23] (née Weasley) (b. 11 August, 1981),[1] occasionally known as Gin by Harry Potter,[4] was an English pure-blood[3] witch, the youngest of Arthur and Molly Weasley's (née Prewett) seven children, and the first female to be born into the Weasley line for several generations. She and her older brothers grew up in The Burrow on the outskirts of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon.
Ginny attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1992-1999, a year beneath the famous Harry Potter, and was sorted into Gryffindor House. During her first year, she developed a long-standing crush on Harry Potter and came under the influence of the memory of Tom Riddle's sixteen-year-old self. The memory was preserved in a diary, which forced Ginny to re-open the Chamber of Secrets, endangering the lives of many students, including herself. Following that ordeal, Ginny grew into a confident young woman, becoming an important member of Dumbledore's Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter in her fourth year. She would later fight in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries (1996), the Battle of the Astronomy Tower (1997), and the Battle of Hogwarts (1998). She was also an accomplished Quidditch player, playing Chaser and Seeker at different times for the Gryffindor Quidditch team.
After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny became a professional Quidditch player for the Holyhead Harpies. Upon retiring from the Harpies, she became the senior Quidditch correspondent for the Daily Prophet. Ginny eventually married Harry Potter and the couple had three children; James Sirius (named after Harry's father and godfather), Albus Severus (named after Albus Dumbledore and Severus Snape), and Lily Luna Potter (named after Harry's mother and their friend Luna Lovegood). By 2020, Ginny had become the sports editor for the Daily Prophet.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life (1981-1992)
1.2 Hogwarts years (1992-1998)
1.2.1 First year
1.2.2 Second year
1.2.3 Third year
1.2.4 Fourth year
1.2.5 Fifth year
1.2.6 Sixth year
1.2.7 Battle of Hogwarts
1.3 Later life (1998-2020)
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Possessions
6 Relationships
6.1 Family
6.1.1 The Weasleys
6.1.2 Harry Potter
6.2 Children
6.2.1 Nieces and nephews
6.3 Hermione Granger
6.4 Fleur Delacour
6.5 Neville Longbottom
6.6 Luna Lovegood
6.7 Nymphadora Tonks
6.8 Sirius Black
6.9 Dumbledore's Army
6.10 Cho Chang
6.11 Dean Thomas
6.12 Michael Corner
6.13 Hogwarts staff
6.14 Lord Voldemort
7 Media
8 Etymology
9 Behind the scenes
9.1 Author's comments
10 Appearances
11 External links
12 Notes and references
Biography
Early life (1981-1992)
Ginny: "Nine and three-quarters! Mum, can't I go..."
Molly Weasley: "You're not old enough, Ginny, now be quiet."
— Ten year old Ginny's enthusiasm about attending Hogwarts[src]
Ginevra Molly Weasley was born on 11 August, 1981, to Arthur and Molly Weasley (née Prewett), the first girl born into the Weasley family in a long time, and the last for that generation after her six older brothers: Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George and Ron. At that time, the wizarding community she grew up in at the height of the First Wizarding War, during which her maternal uncles, Gideon and Fabian Prewett, were murdered while fighting a group of four Death Eaters led by Antonin Dolohov. The war eventually ended for a time two months later, after Lord Voldemort's first defeat "at the hands" of Harry Potter on 31 October, 1981.
The Burrow, where Ginny grew up with her parents and six older brothers
Ginny and her six older brothers grew up in The Burrow on the outskirts of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon, England. Despite the majority of her brothers being keen Quidditch players, Ginny wasn't allowed to play with them when she was a child. When she was six, she began a habit of breaking into the family broom shed and taking each of their brooms out in turn. She was never caught, and it only came to light eight years later when Hermione revealed it to Fred and George.
Ginny claims to have been looking forward to attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry ever since her eldest brother started at the school. Although as she would only have been a year old at the time, it is entirely possible that she was exaggerating here.[8] Similarly, Ginny had always been shy around Harry Potter, when she had blushed and ran back to her room, and put her elbow in the butter dish.[15]
Molly, Ginny, Ron, and Harry meet for the first time at King's Cross Station
On 1 September, 1991, Ginny accompanied her mother to King's Cross Station to see off her brothers as they departed for Hogwarts. Despite being too young to attend the school, she still begged her mother to let her go with them. While saying goodbye to her brothers, she found out that Harry Potter was on the train, and tried to get her mother to let her go on the train to see him. As the train pulled out, she began to cry, despite her brothers promising to send her loads of owls and a Hogwarts toilet seat. She ran along the platform after the train, half-laughing and half-crying, then stopped to wave them off.[5]
When the Hogwarts Express returned to King's Cross in June 1992, Ginny was with her mother to welcome her brothers back and was again excited to see Harry, pointing him out to her mother as he came through the barrier between platforms nine and ten.[24]
Hogwarts years (1992-1998)
First year
"I d-didn't know! I found it inside one of the books Mum got me. I th-thought someone had just left it there and forgotten about it!"
— Ginny explaining how she got hold of the diary[src]
Ginny in her first year with Tom Riddle's diary
After seeing Harry Potter at King's Cross, Ginny developed feelings for him and talked about Harry all summer. When Harry arrived at the Burrow after being rescued from the Dursleys by Ron, Fred, and George, she became extremely shy in his presence. On their first meeting, she came down for breakfast to find him sitting at the table. Startled, she retreated back to her room and stared at Harry as he passed her bedroom on his way to Ron's. Ginny became extremely clumsy around Harry and had a habit of knocking things over when he entered a room. On the day their Hogwarts letters arrived, she blushed a deep red and knocked over a porridge bowl with a loud clatter and put her elbow in the butter dish when Harry asked her if she was starting at Hogwarts.[8]
Ginny travelled to Diagon Alley with her family to buy her school supplies, and her excitement at finally going to Hogwarts was tempered by the fact that, due to the Weasleys' financial situation, she would have to make do with a lot of second-hand products, including her robes and books. In Flourish and Blotts, however, she became the owner of a brand new set of Gilderoy Lockhart's collected works. Harry, having been given them by Lockhart as a publicity stunt, gave them to her since he could afford a set of his own and was embarrassed by what Lockhart had done.
With this act of kindness and recognition, Ginny finally spoke in front of Harry, standing up to Draco Malfoy when he started to insult him.[8] Draco was with his father, Lucius, and the elder Malfoy took the opportunity to insult the Weasley family for associating with the Muggle parents of Muggle-born witch Hermione Granger and — in his eyes — being a disgrace to wizards. During his tirade, he managed to slip Tom Riddle's Diary into Ginny's battered second-hand copy of A Beginner's Guide to Transfiguration.[8]
Ginny confiding her feelings for Harry to Tom Riddle's Diary
Ginny started at Hogwarts on 1 September, 1992 and was sorted into Gryffindor House, like all the Weasleys before her. She discovered Tom Riddle's diary in amongst her school things and unaware of the diary’s true nature, began writing in it. To her amazement, the diary wrote back, and she started to confide in Tom Riddle's memory, writing about how her brothers teased her, how she had to come to school with second-hand robes and books, and how she thought that Harry would never like her. She poured her heart out to the diary and told Tom's memory all about Harry's story.
At least once, Ginny went down toward Rubeus Hagrid's hut, hoping to see Harry there. In confiding in the diary her deepest fears and secrets Ginny became increasingly vulnerable to Tom Riddle's memory, which began to pour a little of his own soul back into her and slowly started to influence her.[8] By the start of October, the signs of the influence began to show on Ginny. She started to look peaky, but a spate of colds in the school covered up the true nature of her condition. Her brother Percy forced her to take Pepperup Potion to get her over it. By 31 October, the memory of Tom Riddle was able to take full control of Ginny and used her to open the Chamber of Secrets, releasing its resident Basilisk, the Serpent of Slytherin which then petrified Argus Filch's cat, Mrs Norris (whom she hung from a torch bracket) and put all the Muggle-born students in great danger. Tom Riddle also forced her to write a threatening message on the wall: "THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN OPENED. ENEMIES OF THE HEIR, BEWARE."[8]
A possessed Ginny writing a message on the wall
Following the attack, Ginny seemed upset over Mrs Norris, and her brothers put it down to the fact that she was a cat-lover. She opened the Chamber of Secrets another two times, resulting in the petrification of Colin Creevey and Justin Finch-Fletchley. She became more visibly upset, and again, her brothers put it down to other causes — she sat next to Colin in Charms, and that she was worried that Ron might be expelled if he got in trouble. Fred and George attempted to cheer her up, but went about it the wrong way by leaping out at her from behind statues covered in fur or boils.[8]
Ginny confided in the diary, however, that she thought she was going mad. She woke up with rooster feathers on her robes, and could not remember where she had been at Hallowe'en and when Colin was attacked. She started to think that she was attacking everyone.[8] The missing pieces of her memory were starting to take a serious toll on her psyche and it was effecting her health beyond the point of looking peaky.
Ginny attempting to get rid of Tom Riddle's diary by flushing it down a toilet
Along with her brothers, Ginny remained at Hogwarts over Christmas, instead of going to visit her brother Bill in Egypt with her parents. She had started to become suspicious of the diary, and several weeks after Christmas attempted to get rid of it by throwing it down a toilet in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom.[8] Once free of the diary, Ginny sent Harry an anonymous Singing Valentine on 14 February, 1993. He received it in front of her, as she was going into a Charms lesson, when he was accosted by the dwarf assigned to deliver it. During the delivery, Harry's bag was torn and the contents were dropped onto the floor. To Ginny's horror, she saw that Harry now had the diary. To make matters worse, Draco Malfoy implied that she had sent Harry the Singing Valentine in front of everyone.[8]
Ginny was fearful that Harry would discover her secrets, such as her feelings for him and how she thought he would never return her affections. In addition to the fact that she might be responsible for the attacks, so she waited until the boys' dormitory was empty. After the dormitory was empty for the day she then ransacked Harry's belongings to recover the diary. Retrieving it, Ginny was once more overcome by the memory of Tom Riddle and opened the Chamber again, this time petrifying Hermione Granger and Penelope Clearwater.[8] It is unknown how she felt about this, but it could be deduced that she most likely felt particularity upset about Hermione being petrified as she was a close friend of her brother and of her crush.
Harry with an unconscious Ginny lying in the Chamber of Secrets
Ginny tried to tell Harry and Ron what was going on, but could not get the words out, and she was interrupted by Percy. The memory of Tom Riddle was furious, as he had been planning on taking on Harry Potter himself after learning his story. Realising that Harry would come to save Ginny, he made her write a farewell on a corridor wall, then enter the Chamber of Secrets to die. She had poured so much of her life into the diary that she could not fight Tom's control of her, and the last thing she remembered as she lay down on the floor of the Chamber was Tom coming out of the diary. The memory of Tom Riddle had fed off her, gaining enough strength to become corporeal and regain the appearance of his 16 year old self. As Tom grew stronger, the life in Ginny faded away until she slipped into an unconscious state.[8]
Ginny awake, explaining to Harry what happened
Ginny awoke in the Chamber to find that Harry had saved her, and destroyed Riddle's diary by piercing it with a basilisk fang, and Ginny's vitality was restored to her. Tearful and scared, Ginny revealed what had happened to Harry and was sure she was going to be expelled from school. After leaving the Chamber with the aid of the phoenix, Fawkes, Ginny was reunited with her parents in McGonagall's office. Despite her fears, Dumbledore did not place the blame on her, saying that older and wiser wizards had been duped by Lord Voldemort, and he sent her to the hospital wing to recover from her ordeal with a mug of hot chocolate.[8]
Following this traumatic experience, Ginny returned to normal and was happy and relaxed for the rest of the school term. At the end of the school year, she travelled back to King's Cross with her brothers, Harry, and Hermione on the Hogwarts Express, playing Exploding Snap. She also mentioned that at some point she had walked in on Percy and Penelope Clearwater kissing in a classroom during the year, and begged her brothers not to tease him about it.[8]
Second year
"You want to set a good example to your sister!"
— Molly Weasley regarding the twins' antics[src]
Ginny and her family in Egypt
Ginny travelled to Egypt in the summer of 1993 with the rest of her family to visit her brother Bill after her father won seven hundred Galleons in the annual Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw. She visited various tombs, but her mother would not allow her to go in the last one because of all the mutant skeletons.[14]
Ginny and her family stayed at the Leaky Cauldron the night before setting off to start her second year at Hogwarts, and she met Harry again. She was even more embarrassed in front of him than usual, muttering a hello but not looking at him. The next day, on Platform 9¾, she did meet his eyes as they shared a laugh over Percy's behaviour when trying to impress his girlfriend, Penelope.[14]
On the Hogwarts Express, Ginny was separated from her brothers until the train stopped because of the Dementors. In the dark, she found her way into the compartment containing Harry, Hermione, Ron, and Professor Lupin. When the Dementors came to the compartment, Ginny was one of the worst affected by them as she had horrible experiences with Tom Riddle's diary last year. She went very pale and shook like mad, eventually sobbing and having to be comforted by Hermione.[14]
Later in the year, after Harry fell from his broomstick in a Quidditch match during a storm, Ginny visited him in the Hospital Wing. She had made him a get well card that sang shrilly when opened and presented it to him while blushing furiously.[14]
Third year
Ron Weasley: "Right, this is getting stupid. Ginny, you can go with Harry, and I'll just —"
Ginny: "I can't, I'm going with — with Neville. He asked me when Hermione said no, and I thought... well... I'm not going to be able to go otherwise, I'm not in fourth year."
— Ginny misses her chance to go to the Yule Ball with Harry[src]
Ginny at the 1994 Quidditch World cup with her friends and family
In the summer of 1994, Ginny spent a lot of time with Hermione Granger, who was staying at the Burrow before and after the Quidditch World Cup. They shared Ginny's room and tent at the World Cup and solidified their growing friendship.[25] Aware of her interest in Harry Potter, Hermione advised Ginny to relax around him more and show him what she was really like, since she could barely talk if he was in the same room as her. She even suggested that Ginny start going out with other available boys to mark time until Harry starts taking more notice and returns her feelings and becomes available.[15] Although she was still shy around Harry, who was also staying at the Burrow, Ginny took Hermione's advice and was much more relaxed and spent time with him, Ron, and Hermione.
She attended the Quidditch World Cup final on 25 August with the majority of her family, as well as Harry and Hermione. During the match she was shown wearing a green shamrock hat in support of the Irish. Ginny was shaken by the appearance of Death Eaters in the aftermath of the Irish victory.[25] During the riot Ginny's father put Fred and George in charge of her safety, while he and the elder Weasley brothers assisted the Ministry. She and the twins were separated from the trio and it was unknown where they hide while the trio was in the forest near the campsite.
Ginny in her Yule Ball dress robes
Ginny returned to Hogwarts, which hosted the Triwizard Tournament that year, she rooted for Harry the unexpected fourth champion and maintained a good relationship with Hermione. Ginny was the only one that Hermione confided in when Viktor Krum asked her to the Yule Ball. As a third year, Ginny was not allowed to attend the ball unless asked by an older student. Neville Longbottom asked her to go after Hermione turned him down, having already accepted Viktor, and Ginny accepted since she was friends with him.[25] She told Ron and Harry after Ron said Ginny should go with Harry.
However, she still harboured feelings for Harry and was displeased to hear that he had asked Cho Chang to the ball. She was even more despondent when Ron suggested that Harry take her to the ball since he did not have a date. Struggling with the idea that she could have gone with Harry, she nevertheless remained loyal to her agreement with Neville and attended the ball with him.[25] At the ball on Christmas, she met Michael Corner and started dating him at the end of the year.[15]
Fourth year
Cho Chang: "The Defence Association? The DA for short, so nobody knows what we're talking about?"
Ginny: "Yeah, the DA's good. Only let's make it stand for Dumbledore's Army, because that's the Ministry's worst fear, isn't it?"
— Ginny comes up with the name for the student defence group[src]
Ginny sitting next to Nymphadora Tonks at 12 Grimmauld Place
With the revelation that Lord Voldemort had returned in the summer of 1995, Ginny's parents became active members of the reconstituted Order of the Phoenix. As a result, the family was relocated to the Order's headquarters at 12 Grimmauld Place that summer. Ginny stayed at headquarters, sharing a room with Hermione, and helped her mother to clean the place to make it a suitable base of operations. She learned the truth about Sirius Black and met Nymphadora Tonks, who acted like a big sister towards her and Hermione. When Harry arrived at Number 12, Ginny was pleased to see Harry, and, due to her taking Hermione's advice and her relationship with Michael Corner, was relaxed and composed in his presence, showing none of the embarrassment and shyness towards him that she had shown during previous meetings.[15]
Due to her age, Ginny was never allowed into Order meetings and when Sirius insisted on filling Harry in on the Order and Voldemort she was the only one banished from the meeting by her mother. However, Hermione — who was allowed to hear — told her everything anyway. When Harry was acquitted at his hearing on 12 August for using magic in front of a Muggle while under age, she was extremely pleased and sang and danced with Fred and George shouting "He got off, he got off, he got off...!".[15]
Ginny casting the Reductor Curse during a D.A. meeting
Ginny returned to Hogwarts on 1 September, 1995 with her brothers. During the train ride on the Hogwarts Express, Ginny introduced Harry and Neville to Luna Lovegood, a Ravenclaw in her year. With the arrival of new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher Dolores Umbridge and a theory-based course, Harry, Ron, and Hermione decided to form a study group to teach practical defence spells. She joined the group, bringing her boyfriend Michael with her and several other Ravenclaws. They all met in the Hog's Head where Ginny first demonstrated her sense of humour by mimicking Umbridge's cough. During the first official meeting of the group, she came up with the name for the group — Dumbledore's Army, which to her was a better name with the same initials of the name Harry's then-girlfriend Cho Chang came up with.[15]
Ginny conjuring her Patronus
During her time in the D.A, Ginny's talent for defensive magic was shown as she had swift reflexes with the Disarming Charm and considerable power with the Reductor Curse, the latter of which highly impressed Harry (much to Ginny's delight) and made her brothers jealous. Toward the end of the fall of 1995, Harry, along with Fred and George, received a lifelong Quidditch ban from Umbridge for attacking Draco Malfoy after their game against Slytherin (although their bans were lifted right after Umbridge was removed from Hogwarts). Ginny tried out for the team and became the new Seeker. Although she admitted that Harry was a better Seeker than her, and that she preferred playing as a Chaser and scoring goals.[15]
Harry informs the Weasleys of their father's attack at the Ministry
What should have been a happy time for Ginny was marred by the attack on her father by Nagini just prior to Christmas. Along with her brothers and Harry, she was instantly sent to 12 Grimmauld Place by a portkey to await news. Relieved to find out he was all right, Ginny saw him the next day in St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries and hugged him immediately. Following the visit, she noticed that Harry started to distance himself from everyone, refusing to speak to anyone in the house. After Hermione skipped a skiing trip with her parents to come to the house, she talked Harry out of hiding in Buckbeak's room, leading him to Ginny and Ron. Learning that Harry had convinced himself that he had been possessed by Lord Voldemort and attacked her father, Ginny railed on him for not seeking advice from the one person who had definitely been possessed by the Dark Lord. She quieted his fears by relaying her experiences to him and admitted that she had never truly gotten over it.[15]
Ginny spent Christmas at 12 Grimmauld Place and visited her father again on Christmas Day. During this visit, along with Ron and Hermione, she found out the truth about Neville Longbottom's parents, and how they had been tortured into insanity by Barty Crouch Jnr, Bellatrix, Rodolphus, and Rabastan Lestrange using the Cruciatus Curse at the end of the First Wizarding War.[15]
Ginny in her Quidditch uniform before a match
Returning to Hogwarts after Christmas, Ginny played her first game for the Gryffindor House team against Hufflepuff. Despite losing the match, Ginny captured the Golden Snitch, although she downplayed the achievement by saying it was not a fast Snitch and that the opposing Seeker, Summerby, had a cold. Probably as a result of her being more confident and relaxed in front of Harry, her willingness to stand up to him, and their shared experiences of being a Seeker, Harry and Ginny grew closer and became better friends.
The group name Ginny came up with for the D.A. eventually saved Harry from expulsion at the Ministry's hands when Cho's best friend Marietta Edgecombe betrayed the group to Umbridge, since the name gave Dumbledore a way to take the fall for the D.A.'s formation by reminding Minister Cornelius Fudge of saying that the group named themselves "Dumbledore's Army, not Potter's". This forced Dumbledore to then escape the castle with Fawkes' help in order to evade arrest, leaving Umbridge herself to replace him as school head.
Around Easter, Ginny had had her first real one on one conversation with Harry in the library, during which they ate Easter eggs together. When she persuaded him to talk to Cho (who had recently broken up with him in order to defend Marietta despite her treachery), Harry confided in her that he needed to speak to Sirius, and she encouraged him to do so, even insisting that she might be able to help. It's around this time that Ginny started to speak to Harry like a friend, and Harry in turn began to enjoy her company, although Ginny bringing chocolate into the library infuriated Madam Pince to the point of violently chasing her and Harry out. Ginny then went to Fred and George, and asked them to find a way for Harry to speak with Sirius.
In May, Ginny played her second game of Quidditch for the Gryffindor team against Ravenclaw. She managed to capture the Golden Snitch, beating Cho Chang and securing the Quidditch Cup for Gryffindor. In the aftermath of the victory, Michael became very moody and sulked about the result. Because of his attitude, Ginny dumped him shortly after the match.[15]
Ginny and other D.A. members being held captive by Umbridge
When Harry had a vision of Sirius being tortured in the Department of Mysteries by Voldemort on 18 June, he informed Ron and Hermione. The latter convinced Harry to check to see if Sirius was at 12 Grimmauld Place before rushing off to rescue him, and Ginny and Luna came to their assistance. With Harry and Hermione breaking into Umbridge's office, and Ron distracting her with news that Peeves was wreaking havoc, Ginny and Luna stopped people from entering the corridor leading to the office by saying that someone had flooded it with Garrotting Gas. Unfortunately for them, Umbridge saw through their ruse since she knew of Peeves's true location and ordered the Inquisitorial Squad to round them up. Ginny was captured by Cassius Warrington, and when Neville saw what was happening and tried to help, he was caught as well. Ginny was restrained by a large sixth-year girl, though she was not an obedient captive and kept trying to break free by kicking her captor in the shins.[15]
When Umbridge threatened to use the Cruciatus Curse on Harry to make him tell her what he was doing, Hermione faked a breakdown and told a lie about a weapon that Albus Dumbledore had told them to make. She and Harry lured Umbridge into the Forbidden Forest, leaving Ginny, Ron, Luna, and Neville alone with the Inquisitorial Squad. They managed to break free using skills that they had acquired in their D.A. sessions; Ginny personally dealt with Draco Malfoy, hitting him with her preferred Bat-Bogey Hex. They then regrouped with Harry and Hermione, who had left Umbridge with a group of enraged centaurs.[15]
Ginny, Harry, Ron, Hermione, Neville, and Luna fight off Death Eaters in the Hall of Prophecy
Convinced that Sirius was in mortal danger, Harry resolved to travel to London and rescue him. Although Harry tried to prevent Ginny, Neville, and Luna from accompanying him, Ron and Hermione eventually persuaded him otherwise. After flying Thestrals to London, they entered the Ministry of Magic using the visitor's entrance and headed for the Department of Mysteries. In the Hall of Prophecy, they found no sign of Sirius, but Ron did find a prophecy concerning Harry and Voldemort, but pertaining only to Harry. As Harry removed it from the shelf, the group was surrounded by Death Eaters led by Lucius Malfoy and learned that Voldemort had used the connection between himself and Harry to lure him there to remove the prophecy. Ginny was sadistically threatened with torture by Bellatrix Lestrange, who wanted to use the Cruciatus Curse on her to force Harry to hand over the prophecy, thus hoping to avoid the inevitable fight that would break out.
At Harry's signal, all six D.A. members fired Reductor Curses at the shelves to distract the Death Eaters and began running. Ginny, along with Luna and Ron, were separated from the other three and were chased through various rooms by Death Eaters. In one room containing a three-dimensional representation of the solar system, one of the Death Eaters grabbed Ginny by the ankle. Luna used the Reductor Curse on a model of Pluto, causing it to explode in the Death Eater's face, but Ginny's ankle was broken in the process.
Ginny being threatened by a Death Eater in the Death Chamber
Luna managed to get Ginny and Ron (who was also disabled) to safety, but Ginny's broken ankle immobilised her and restricted her ability to help in the battle. She grew distraught when Ron came under attack by the brains, and was knocked unconscious by a Stunning Spell to the face. Luckily, the Death Eaters were focused on the prophecy and Harry was able to lead them away from Ginny and the other vulnerable students. Ginny regained consciousness by the time Harry was pursuing Bellatrix Lestrange, but he ignored her questions and raced past her.[15]
Following the battle, Ginny recovered in the hospital wing at Hogwarts where Madam Pomfrey fixed her ankle in a trice. On the train ride back to London, Ginny revealed that she had ditched Michael, who had moved on to Cho Chang while Ginny had moved on to Dean Thomas, much to Ron's horror.[15] She comforted Harry, who had lost his godfather, Sirius Black during the battle, when he was pushed right through the veil, the portal separating the world of the living from the world of the dead by his cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange.
Fifth year
Harry Potter: "I can't be involved with you anymore. We've got to stop seeing each other. We can't be together."
Ginny: "It's for some stupid, noble reason, isn't it?"
Harry Potter: "Voldemort uses people his enemies are close to... Think how much danger you'll be in if we keep this up. He'll know, he'll find out. He'll try and get to me through you."
— Harry breaking up with Ginny for her own safety[src]
Ginny with Molly and the trio in Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes
Ginny spent the summer of 1996 at the Burrow with Harry, Ron, Hermione and the other Weasleys. Despite having to put up with her brother Bill's new fiancée, Fleur Delacour (whom she nicknamed "Phlegm" and strongly disliked), she had a good summer practising Quidditch and planning to try out for the House team as a Chaser. With the summer holidays coming to a close Ginny, the trio, and some of the other Weasleys took a trip to Diagon Alley needed to purchase school supplies. While in Fred and George's new shop, Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, in Diagon Alley, she bought her first pet, a purple Pygmy Puff that she named Arnold.[10]
On 1 September, she met up with Dean Thomas on the Hogwarts Express, but was interrupted by fellow D.A. member Zacharias Smith, who attempted to get information out of her regarding what had happened that night in the Department of Mysteries. Tired of his continued questioning, she cursed him with the Bat-Bogey Hex and was seen by the new Potions master, Horace Slughorn. Ginny feared detention, but Slughorn was so impressed with the hex that he invited her to take lunch with him as part of a select group of students he hoped to cultivate and induct into his Slug Club.[10]
Ginny scoring a goal, while playing as a Chaser against Slytherin
As term started, Ginny tried out for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, of which Harry had been made the Captain. She excelled as a Chaser and was given a spot on the roster. Following one Quidditch practice, she and Dean were caught kissing by Harry and Ron. She and Ron had a blazing argument over her kissing Dean in public, but Ginny countered that Ron only saw it as being wrong because he had never kissed anyone before. The argument led to a frosty relationship between the two siblings which lasted for quite some time.[10]
During the first Quidditch match of the season against Slytherin, Ginny scored several goals to help the team to victory. Following the match, she purposely crashed her broomstick into the commentary box because the commentator, Zacharias Smith, had been making disparaging remarks about the Gryffindor team. Her feud with Ron over his attitude towards her and Dean was worsened when, in the aftermath of the victory, he began going out with Lavender Brown, whom he often snogged in public. Ginny branded her brother a "filthy hypocrite" for his actions, but more or less seemed to be over the row they previously shared.[10]
Ginny arrives at Slughorn's Christmas party
Before the holiday break Ginny attended Slughorn's Christmas party with Dean Thomas. She spent Christmas at the Burrow with her family and Harry, and when Ginny returned to Hogwarts, she seemed unenthusiastic about meeting up with Dean. After Ron was accidentally poisoned on his birthday, Ginny visited him in the hospital wing, and they seemingly forgave each other. She and Harry discussed what had happened to Ron endlessly, trying to come up with an explanation for what had happened.[10]
Ginny played in the Quidditch match against Hufflepuff, where Ron's bedridden status forced Harry to play the reserve Keeper Cormac McLaggen. During the match, McLaggen took one of the Beater's bats and pelted a Bludger directly at Harry. Harry was knocked unconscious and suffered a fractured skull. Dean, who had been playing as reserve Chaser in place of Katie Bell, laughed about the incident, causing him and Ginny to have a row. Ginny subsequently visited Harry in the hospital wing.[10]
Ginny and Dean were going through a rocky patch, and in April they finally split up when she accused Dean of always trying to help her through the portrait door into the Gryffindor common room. In reality, Harry had been wearing his Invisibility Cloak and bumped into her while under the influence of Felix Felicis, but the incident finally brought an end to their already unstable relationship. Despite the break-up — or because of it — Ginny was still her usually bubbly self and hung around with Harry and Ron more because of Quidditch training. She also defended Harry's use of the Sectumsempra curse against Draco Malfoy, even if it had earned him a detention that forced him to miss the last Quidditch match of the year.[10]
Harry and Ginny's spontaneous first kiss
With Harry in detention, Ginny took the role of Seeker for the Gryffindor team for the final match against Ravenclaw. They won the match and the Quidditch cup, and, during the post-match celebrations, Ginny and Harry spontaneously kissed. Ginny who had never really given up on Harry, was over the moon, as was he, as he had been harbouring feelings for her all year. Ginny and Harry started dating, although their time together was limited due to Harry's weekly detentions and Ginny's O.W.L. reviews.[10]
Main article: Battle of the Astronomy Tower
On 30 June, Death Eaters were let into the school by Draco Malfoy, while Dumbledore and Harry were away searching for one of Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes. Harry, who had suspected that Draco was a Death Eater for quite a while, forewarned Ron and Hermione to be vigilant and gave them the remains of his Felix Felicis potion. On Harry's orders Ginny joined Ron and Hermione in taking the potion, giving them extra luck in case they needed it. Along with Ron and Neville who had answered the D.A. call to arms, Ginny staked out the entrance to the Room of Requirement, which Harry believed that Draco was using for some unknown nefarious purpose. Later that night Harry was soon proven right.[10]
Ginny comforting Harry after the death of Albus Dumbledore
They watched Draco emerge from the room with the Hand of Glory; when he saw them, he threw Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder, blinding them and leading Death Eaters into Hogwarts via a Vanishing Cabinet. Fighting their way clear of the darkness, they met up with Remus Lupin and other members of the Order of the Phoenix that were patrolling the school under orders from Dumbledore.[10] In the ensuing battle, Ginny duelled with Amycus Carrow, but suffered no injuries due in part to the Felix Felicis potion. In the aftermath, Ginny was shocked to find that her brother Bill had been badly injured and permanently scarred by Fenrir Greyback. She was able to lead Harry away from Dumbledore's corpse and up to the hospital wing, where Harry broke the news that Dumbledore had been killed by Severus Snape. She seemed to accept Bill and Fleur's relationship after witnessing the love between them.[10]
Ginny sitting next to Harry at Dumbledore's funeral (left side, sixth row)
Ginny took her O.W.L.s, despite the tragedy that had occurred at the school and spend most of her time with Harry. She attended Dumbledore's funeral, along with several others. At the funeral she sat next to Harry, Hermione, and Ron, instead of sitting with the rest of her family. After the former headmaster had been laid to rest, Harry broke up with Ginny. He feared that if Voldemort knew how he felt about her, she would become a target and he could not knowingly endanger her life. Despite saying that she knew the risks involved in being with Harry and that she didn't care, she accepted his decision, after he told her he would not be able to bear it if she died and it was his fault. She called his decision an act of stupid nobility.[10]
Sixth year
Harry Potter: "And then what does she thinks is going to happen? Someone else might kill off Voldemort while she's holding us here making vol-au-vents?"
Ginny: "So it's true? That's what you're trying to do?"
— A discussion of Harry's current plans[src]
Molly and Ginny relieved at the safe arrival of Harry and Hagrid
After the death of Dumbledore, and the knowledge that the protective charm over Harry was due to end soon, as he would be turning 17 and legally an adult, The Order of the Phoenix arranged to move him from the Dursleys' home to the Burrow on 27 July, via a plan that turned out to be highly dangerous. While most of her family went off to assist in the operation, which turned into a battle, Ginny stayed behind with her mother. As the team started to miss their Portkeys, Ginny started to worry for their safety and was only partially relieved to see Harry turn up at the Burrow.
She then explained that situation to Harry, stating that the other two-man teams were running late and that was why her mother was so worried. While waiting for the others to arrive she and Harry held hands, as a form of comfort and watching the sky silently. When George turned up with his ear cursed off, Ginny was shocked and helped her mother tend to him. Nothing could be done about George's missing ear, as it was cursed off by dark magic. Finally, as each member of her family returned, she allowed herself to be relaxed, but the unexpected death of "Mad-Eye" Moody greatly sobered the occasion.[9]
Ginny kisses Harry at the Burrow as his seventeenth birthday present
Over the next few days, Ginny interacted little with Harry because of their split, despite her feelings towards him. However, while setting the table for dinner Harry let slip that he, Ron, and Hermione were about to set off on a quest to stop Voldemort. This caused Ginny to go pale and comment that she suspected that the trio's plans were something of the manner, considering Harry's drive to defeat Voldemort. Harry then tried to convince Ginny that he had spoken in haste and was just kidding, she did not believe it.
On Harry's seventeenth birthday, Ginny confessed that she did not know what to give Harry since anything she gave him would have to be small enough for him to carry around with him. Instead, she "kissed him like she never had before" in the hopes of giving him something to remember her by. She did this in case he met someone else on his travels, something he assured her would be unlikely to happen. Ginny felt comforted by this and viewed it as the silver lining she had been looking for. However, they were interrupted by a disapproving Ron, with Hermione in tow.[9] As Harry exited her bedroom it was mentioned that Ginny might have for once finally succumb to tears.
Ginny talking to Ron at Bill and Fleur's wedding
On 1 August Ginny served as a bridesmaid at Bill and Fleur's wedding, along with Gabrielle Delacour. When Gabrielle batted her eyelashes at Harry, Ginny coughed loudly to indicate her annoyance. She wore a golden dress and as the ceremony began, her Auntie Muriel remarked in a carrying whisper that her dress was far too low cut. Ginny responded to this by turning around and winking at Harry. During the reception, she danced with Luna Lovegood, Lee Jordan, and others. Harry (disguised as a member of the Weasley family) jealously warned Viktor Krum off of speaking with her, when he remarked on Ginny's attractiveness. He warned him that she had a big and jealous boyfriend.
In the middle of the celebration, the guests were warned by Kingsley Shacklebolt's Patronus that the Ministry of Magic had fallen, that Rufus Scrimgeour was dead, and that the Death Eaters were coming. As the Death Eaters stormed the wedding, Hermione apparated herself, Harry, and Ron away from the chaos to begin their Horcrux quest. Ginny was seen defending herself against a Death Eater and was unable to say goodbye to Harry and the two did not see each other again for almost a year. The Weasley family was questioned, but none of them were harmed.
Ginny and others, Death Eaters storm the Hogwarts Express in search of Harry Potter
As part of the new Ministry's regime, Hogwarts attendance became mandatory and Muggle-borns were being rounded up. Ginny was present on the Hogwarts Express on 1 September 1997 when it was raided by three Death Eaters in search of Harry Potter. Once at school, Ginny joined up with Neville Longbottom and Luna Lovegood to restart the D.A. and defy Snape's regime. They openly defied authority and snuck out at night painting graffiti on the walls of the corridors — "Dumbledore's Army, still recruiting". On one occasion, they attempted to steal Godric Gryffindor's Sword from Snape's office because they had knowledge that Harry needed it, but were caught and punished. Ginny served detention with Hagrid in the Forbidden Forest and was banned from all trips to Hogsmeade. Ginny and Neville were left to lead the D.A. without Luna after she was abducted by Death Eaters over the Christmas holidays.
During the Easter holidays, Ginny was at the Burrow when the Weasleys were forced into hiding at Aunt Muriel's after Ron's accompaniment of Harry and Hermione was discovered by the Death Eaters.[9]
Battle of Hogwarts
"Harry turned and saw Ginny and Tonks, both with their wand drawn at the next window, which was missing several panes. Even as he watched, Ginny sent a well aimed jinx into the crowd of fighters below."
— Ginny fighting in the opening stage of the final battle[src]
When Harry, Hermione, and Ron returned to Hogwarts on 1 May, 1998 in search of a Horcrux, they were met by Neville and the remnants of Dumbledore's Army that had stood up to Snape and the Carrows. Acting on a promise to Ginny, Neville sent word to her that Harry was at the school. Ginny arrived with her brothers, Lee Jordan, and Cho Chang. They arrived on the understanding that a battle was about to be fought.[9] She was incredibly relieved to see the trio, particularly Harry and expressed her displeasure at Cho's lingering feelings for him. Cho's eagerness to escort Harry to Ravenclaw Tower irritated her and in turn insisted that her friend Luna Lovegood do it instead.
Ginny and the other D.A. members preparing to blow up the covered bridge
As more members of Dumbledore's Army and the Order of the Phoenix arrived for battle, Mr and Mrs Weasley forbade their daughter to take part in the fighting, since she was underage. Ginny furiously argued against it, as it was hypocritical, since Harry was much younger than her when he faced Voldemort all the previous times. Also, she did not want to leave when her whole family and Harry would be fighting and wait at home for news. Remus Lupin offered a compromise: Ginny would stay in the Room of Requirement so as to be on the scene, but would not involve herself in the fighting. Although she did not like it, she grudgingly agreed.[9] She proceeded to stay in the room.
Ginny mourning with her family during the One-hour armistice
On 2 May during the battle, Harry needed the Room of Requirement to change form into the Room of Hidden Things, in order to retrieve one of Voldemort's Horcruxes, Ravenclaw's Diadem. He asked Ginny to leave the room, on the proviso that she would re-enter it once he had completed his task, not believing that she would. Freed of her sanctuary Ginny joined the battle with a flourish. She and Nymphadora Tonks were later seen by Harry firing well aimed jinxes from a high-up window into the crowd of fighters below.
After the initial fighting Lord Voldemort called a temporary truce to allow the combatants to retrieve their dead, and for Harry to give himself up to avoid further killing. Ginny was shocked and heartbroken by the death of her brother Fred, and was comforted by Hermione. She later assisted in the recovery of the wounded outside the castle. When Harry passed her on his way to face Voldemort in the Forbidden Forest under the Invisibility cloak, she was comforting an injured girl. Harry thought she might have sensed his presence as he walked away, but the two had no contact, as Harry did not want anyone to try and stop him.[9]
Ginny is spared death at the hands of Bellatrix Lestrange by mere inches
When the seemingly lifeless body of Harry was presented to the defenders of Hogwarts by Voldemort, Ginny let out a terrible scream of anger, grief and denial that was terrible to hear. However, his apparent death spurred the defenders on, and Neville took up the Sword of Gryffindor and beheaded Nagini. With the battle restarted Ginny, Luna, and Hermione duelled Bellatrix Lestrange, the last Death Eater at that point still standing. Bellatrix was more than a match for the three, however, and fired a Killing Curse that missed Ginny by an inch. Witnessed by both her mother and Harry, the action spurred both of them to charge the Death Eater. Molly got there first and after a fantastically vicious duel, Lestrange fell to the floor stone dead. Ginny witnessed Harry's final defeat of Lord Voldemort, and was one of the first people to run and hug him. She sat with her head on her mother's shoulder during the victory celebrations in the Great Hall.[9]
Later life (1998-2020)
"Ginny Weasley, stuck with her athletic career, playing for the Holyhead Harpies, the all-female Quidditch team. Eventually, Ginny left the team to raise their three children — James, Albus, and Lily — while writing as the senior Quidditch correspondent for the wizarding newspaper, the Daily Prophet."
— J. K. Rowling regarding Ginny's life in the future[src]
After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny and Harry rekindled their passionate romance. For several years Ginny was part of the Quidditch team, the Holyhead Harpies.[21] At some point she and Harry were married and her last name became Potter. She eventually retired and the couple had a family. She gave birth to three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus, and Lily Luna.[9] Ginny later became the senior Quidditch correspondent for the Daily Prophet.[21]
A 36 year old Ginny Potter with her family in 2017
In her capacity as Quidditch correspondent Ginny attended the 2014 Quidditch World Cup in the Patagonian Desert. While here, she wrote several articles for the Daily Prophet using her married name, Ginny Potter.[26] Her family joined her to watch the finals of the Cup in July[27]. Ginny covered the outcome of the Brazil vs Bulgaria match live along with Rita Skeeter. The latter while in the journalists' enclosure repeatedly made corrections to Ginny's reports. This continued until shortly after the match ended, Rita remarked that her husband Harry Potter was "publicity-hungry" — just as Ginny was approaching. That last remark sailed a bit too close to home and Rita was taken "unaccountably ill" with what some called "a jinx to the solar plexus".[28]
On 1 September, 2017, Harry and Ginny escorted their children James and Albus to the Hogwarts Express, where Albus would begin his first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
By 2020 Ginny was the sports editor for the Daily Prophet, while her husband was promoted to Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. By this time all three of the couple's children were attending Hogwarts. In the same year, she joined Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Draco Malfoy going back in time to save Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy and thwart Delphini's evil plans.
In the 21st century, Ginny Weasley taught the Bat-Bogey Hex to members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force who pursued an Auror profession, in order to help address the results of the Calamity.[29] In addition, as a Quidditch Star, Ginny instructed them on body control techniques upon falling off a broom, which they applied to decrease the amount of damage they can take.
Physical appearance
"A lot of boys like her. Even you think she's good-looking, don't you Blaise, and we all know how hard you are to please!"
— Discussion of Ginny's physical appearance[src]
Ginny in her sixth year, age 16
Ginny was described as being an extremely pretty girl, who had the typical Weasley family traits: flaming red hair (which she wore in a long mane) and a freckled complexion. She was of light skin, a very petite stature, and bright brown eyes like her mother. When blushed, Ginny would go a shade of red that matched her hair. When in a highly emotional state, she was known to acquire a "hard, blazing look".[8]
It was stated that due to her prettiness, Ginny was perfectly capable of attracting a certain amount of attention from boys. In 1996, Pansy Parkinson stated that "a lot of boys like her" and that even Blaise Zabini found her "good-looking", with the additional observation that he was very hard to please when it came to the physical appearance of women. Though Blaise immediately objected to this accusation, it could still count as a testament of sorts to Ginny's beauty. Viktor Krum also stated that she was very pretty during Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding in 1997.
Personality and traits
"You don't know how weird it is for her to be this shy, she never shuts up normally —"
— Ron Weasley regarding his sister's personality[src]
Ginny's shyness around Harry Potter, whom she has feelings for
Ginny was a forceful, independent girl who often knew her own mind. She had an energetic, lively personality. Ginny also was known to be quick-witted, funny, and could often make others laugh even when they were feeling down.[15][10] However, when she was young and in love with Harry in the early years of their friendship, she became shy and withdrawn in his presence.[8][14] On the advice of their friend Hermione, she overcame it. She relaxed and reasserted her usual self, which was when he finally started noticing her.[9][10] One of the traits he was attracted to was that Ginny rarely got weepy.[9]
Ginny was popular during their time at Hogwarts, and was fancied by numerous boys. Her brothers: Fred, George, and Ron, often thought that she was too popular for her own good. However, Ginny was good at lying and capable of being opaque when necessary. While staying at 12 Grimmauld Place, she was taught by Nymphadora Tonks how to check if a door had been imperturbed by flicking dungbombs at it and watching them bounce away as if hitting an invisible wall. When asked by her mother who was responsible, she blamed it on Crookshanks, even though her hands were filthy at the time.[15]
Draco Malfoy: "Bet you loved that, didn’t you, Potter? Famous Harry Potter,” Can’t even go into a bookshop without making the front page."
Ginny: "Leave him alone, he didn't want all that!"
— Ginny defending Harry against school bully Draco Malfoy[src]
Ginny standing up to Draco Malfoy in Harry Potter's defence
Growing up with six older brothers toughened her up. Ginny was not afraid to stand up to anybody, friends and foes alike. Notably, she stood up to Draco Malfoy on their first meeting in Flourish and Blotts when he insulted Harry in 1992.[8] She even stood up to Hermione in defence of Harry's use of the Sectumsempra curse.[10] Furthermore, Ginny could be harsh towards those whom she disliked. For instance, she made fun of Fleur Delacour behind her back when she first became engaged to Bill. She also hexed and crashed into Zacharias Smith when he irritated and insulted her on two separate occasions during her fifth year.[10]
Ginny was notably difficult to intimidate or frighten, as seen during her moments of standing up to Harry during his moments of rage and anger. This is particularly impressive given that Harry's rages were capable of terrifying even his best friends Ron and Hermione, who were both incredibly courageous individuals. Her courage enabled her to take part in a three-way duel alongside Luna and Hermione against the powerful and insane Bellatrix Lestrange.
Ginny was an animal lover, especially fond of cats. When Mrs Norris was petrified in her first year at Hogwarts, her brothers put her shock down to this fact, not knowing that Ginny was scared because she couldn't remember what she was doing at the time and feared that she was responsible.[8] She named Ron's owl "Pigwidgeon",[25] and was known to be able to lure Crookshanks out of hiding to play with her when she wanted.[15] In her fifth year, she finally got her own pet, a purple Pygmy Puff from Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes that she named Arnold.
Magical abilities and skills
Ginny's corporeal horse Patronus, which she was able to conjure at age fourteen
"Come on, Ginny's not bad. Actually, I dunno how she got so good, seeing how we never let her play with us"
— Ginny's impressive Quidditch skills[src]
Ginny was a very powerful and talented witch. She was also a naturally talented at the Dark Arts, a gifted flyer and Quidditch player. At the age of fourteen, she was able to conjure a corporeal Patronus — a very advanced piece of magic and proof of superior magical ability.[30]
Duelling: Despite being often prevented from participating in combat by her mother mainly for her young age, Ginny was a highly talented and competent duellist. She had an uncanny ability for dodging her opponents' curses due to her agility and reflexes. Ginny survived the Battle of the Department of Mysteries with only a minor injury.[15] She also fought Death Eater Amycus Carrow again during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and emerged unscathed. This was partly due to the use of Felix Felicis and partly due to her agility.[10] She later defended herself from a Death Eater during the Attack at the Burrow.[9] During the Battle of Hogwarts, Ginny fired well-aimed curses into the crowd of attacking Death Eaters. She, Hermione, and Luna also held their own against Bellatrix Lestrange, an extremely powerful Dark witch[9]
Ginny casting Reducto during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries
Defence Against the Dark Arts: As a committed and enthusiastic member of Dumbledore's Army, Ginny learned how to successfully cast numerous defensive and offensive spells successfully, under Harry Potter's expert instruction.[15] Ginny was capable of fighting numerous highly dangerous Death Eaters throughout numerous battles of the Second Wizarding War,[15][10] with her even surviving the Battle of Hogwarts,[9] showing her excellent defensive abilities.
Charms: Ginny was highly proficient in this branch of magic. In her first year, she animated "a well card to sing shrilly when opened".[8] She once used a single Scouring Charm in 1995 to clean all the Stinksap out of a compartment on the Hogwarts Express.[15] She also had highly swift reflexes with the Disarming Charm.[8] Most impressively, at the age fourteen, she was able to cast the extremely advanced and powerful Patronus Charm, which took the corporeal form of a horse.[20]
Ginny in her Quidditch uniform
Flying: Ginny eventually became an accomplished flyer and played both Chaser (which she prefers, as she likes scoring goals) and Seeker for the Gryffindor Quidditch team. Despite not playing Seeker regularly, she was able to defeat Cho Chang, a seasoned Seeker. She even effectively stepped into the shoes of the extremely talented Harry Potter (although she admitted that Harry was a better Seeker than her), winning Gryffindor the Quidditch Cup in 1996 and 1997.[15][10] As an adult, Ginny became a professional Quidditch player for the Holyhead Harpies.[21] In later years, she used her experiences in the sport to instructed the new members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force on body control techniques upon falling off a broom.
Agility: Ginny was small and extremely fast, making her adept at dodging spells in combat and flying to catch the Golden Snitch at Quidditch matches. However, she sometimes could be trapped, as one time a Death Eater grabbed Ginny by the ankle.
"You’ve never been on the receiving end of one of her Bat-Bogey Hexes, have you?"
— Fred Weasley regarding Ginny's talent for the Bat-Bogey Hex[src]
Dark Arts: Ginny was surprisingly skilful in dark magic and with the casting of dark charms. In particular the Bat-Bogey Hex, which she was noted to be very adept with from a fairly young age.[15] This even gained Professor Slughorn's notice entirely for her "marvellous Bat-Bogey Hex".[10] Ginny was capable of casting a very powerful and impressive Reductor Curse, which helped to distract Death Eaters once.[15] She also was described to fire well-aimed jinxes at her opponents.[9]
Leadership skills: At the young age of sixteen, Ginny was able to effectively co-lead Dumbledore's Army alongside Luna Lovegood and Neville Longbottom, showing her to have been a capable and resilient leader.
Journalism: As the Head Quidditch Correspondent for the Daily Prophet following her retirement from professional Quidditch, Ginny has been shown in her articles to be a very fair and adept journalist and reporter, often composing very unbiased and accurate articles while still injecting a certain enthusiasm into her writing style. Her position as the head of this section of the Prophet shows her level of skill as a journalist and her level of responsibility while still remaining a celebrated reporter
Possessions
Ginny's wand
Wand: Ginny's wand was made from yew, with an unknown length and core. Like most wizards and witches, she purchased it at Ollivanders before beginning her education at Hogwarts in 1992.
Arnold: Ginny's Pygmy Puff, or miniature Puffskein, purchased from her brothers Fred and George Weasley at their shop, Weasley's Wizard Wheezes, in August of 1996.
Broomstick: Ginny had an unknown broom which she used for Quidditch as Chaser or Seeker.
T. M. Riddle's Diary: Tom Riddle's diary was in Ginny's possession before Harry Potter destroyed in the Chamber of Secrets on 29 May, 1993. The memory that resided in the diary had begun possessing and slowly draining the life out of Ginny.
Dumbledore's Army coin: Each member of the D.A. had a coin that had numerals that changed into the time and date of the next meeting of the D.A. whenever the master coin (owned by Harry Potter) was changed. The coin would also warm up to alert the holder to the change.
Bedroom: Ginny's bedroom was where she used to sleep at The Burrow. It is located on the first floor landing. It was described as small, but bright. It also overlooking the family's orchard and was decorated with posters of the Weird Sisters and Gwenog Jones.[9]
Weasley jumper: As a member of the Weasley family she owned several Weasley Jumpers. They were made by Molly Weasley for family and friends and sent as Christmas gifts.
Yule Ball robes: Ginny wore dress robes to the Yule Ball in 1994. She was accompanied to the ball by Neville Longbottom.
Dress robes: These were the dress robes worn by Ginny to the Slug Club Christmas party on 20 December, 1996.
Bridesmaid's dress: This was the dress Ginny wore to Bill and Fleur's wedding. She was a bridesmaid along with Fleur's younger sister Gabrielle.
Relationships
Family
The Weasleys
"Well, you seemed too busy to call him a prat, and I thought someone should."
— Ginny regarding her brother Ron[src]
The Weasley family
Ginny's relationship with her family was a good one, having been raised in a loving environment. She would often comfort them (especially her mother) in times of need. The only and long-waited daughter in the family, she had to deal with an over-protective mother, who tried to prevent Ginny from war meetings and in the Battle of Hogwarts, despite her previous displays of power and skill fighting alongside Dumbledore's Army at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. Nevertheless, she often helped her mother at housework and in tending wounded at hard times.
Bill, her oldest brother
Ginny appeared to worship her brother Bill, defending his choice of earring and hairstyle to their mother,[25] and initially feeling that he could do a lot better than Fleur Delacour, whom she mockingly called "Phlegm".[10] She was in shock but helped to take care of Bill when he was permanently scarred by Fenrir Greyback.[10]
Ginny got on well with Charlie, but found Percy to be a little overbearing and stuffy. She caught him kissing his girlfriend, Penelope Clearwater, during her first year at Hogwarts, and proceeded to tell her other brothers about it after her recovery from possession by Tom Marvolo Riddle's memory.[8] Following Percy's decision to turn his back on his family over their support of Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter instead of the Ministry, Ginny was furious with him and even threw mashed parsnips at him when he came to the Burrow at Christmas in 1996.[10] .
Ginny: "Just because he's never snogged anyone in his life, just because the best kiss he's ever had is from our Auntie Muriel —"
Ron Weasley: "Shut your mouth!"
Ginny: "No, I will not! I've seen you with Phlegm, hoping she'll kiss you on the cheek every time you see her, it's pathetic! If you went out and got a bit of snogging done yourself, you wouldn't mind so much that everyone else does it!"
— Ginny and Ron have an intense row in 1996[src]
Ginny with Fred, George, and Ron
Percy tried to be a role model for Ginny and Ron, but the two youngest siblings took after Fred and George, the fun-loving twins. In temperament, she resembled the twins, Fred and George, and, like them, often teased Ron, who was closest to her in age. Some of Ginny's brothers had difficulty accepting that their little sister was popular with the opposite gender; Ginny and Ron had a particularly nasty row after Ron caught her snogging Dean Thomas, though they eventually made up.[10]
Ginny has something of a love-hate relationship with Ron, while she loves him as a brother very much and cares deeply for him, their fights are usually quite ferocious. She had no problem telling Ron off when she believed his behaviour was unreasonable and no issues with embarrassing him in public, as when she openly mocked him for his crush on Fleur and even tripped him in front of her.[10] In 1994, Ginny comforted Ron when he humiliated himself by asking Fleur Delacour to attend the Yule Ball with him, while still managing to find the situation very funny. In 1996 she and Ron had an vicious fight about Ginny kissing her boyfriend in public, it went as far as both siblings using wands and reducing Ginny to tears, something she hardly resorted to. Ron fired a hex right at Ginny but missed and if Harry had not interfered, Ginny would have retaliated.
Ginny had a humourous side and makes many jokes to keep people's spirits up very much like Fred and George; however, her relationship with them was not perfect. She got angry with them for questioning her on her dating life and while they respected her relationship with Harry, they were not above finding ways to tease them about it. She was heartbroken by the death of her brother Fred during the Battle of Hogwarts.[9]
Harry Potter
"Harry and Ginny are real soulmates. They're both very strong and very passionate. That's their connection, and they're remarkable together."
— J. K. Rowling expands on Harry and Ginny's romance[src]
Harry Potter, husband, father of her children, and the love of her life
Simply put, Harry Potter was the love of Ginny's life. At age ten, she only briefly made his acquaintance when he boarded the Hogwarts Express with her brother Ron.[5] She developed a crush on him nonetheless when he visited the Burrow.[8] Shy and clumsy around him, Ginny confided her feelings in Tom Riddle's Diary. Her outpouring of emotions enabled Riddle's memory to take control of her. Harry eventually saved her life in the Chamber of Secrets by slaying Salazar Slytherin's Basilisk with Godric Gryffindor's Sword and destroying the diary with one of the serpent's fangs.[8] Harry saving her life served to make her more withdrawn when in his presence, barely able to speak in front of him.[14] She even sent him a singing card on Valentine's Day.
Meanwhile, Harry was friendly toward Ginny, but did not return her romantic feelings. When Ginny was in third year Ron suggested that Harry take her to the Yule Ball, but as it turned out she already had a date. Harry, given his purely platonic interest in Ginny at the time, was not upset by this. However, Ginny was "extremely miserable" and left the common room with her head bowed, upset at the knowledge that she could have gone to the ball with her long-time crush. Ginny sought advice from Hermione Granger, who suggested that she relax in front of Harry, be true to herself, and possibly even date other boys.[10] Taking this advice, Ginny dated both Michael Corner[15] and Dean Thomas in her fourth and fifth years. Even though she dated other boys, Ginny never completely gave up on the hope that Harry would reciprocate her affections.[10]
Ginny would often defend Harry whenever she felt it was needed, such as; in 1992 when she stood up to Draco Malfoy and fiercely told him "to leave [Harry] alone". She also told off Blaise Zabini in 1996 when he insulted Harry and even stood up to Hermione, her close personal friend in defence of his use of the Sectumsempra curse on Malfoy. In 1997 she told off her then boyfriend Dean Thomas for laughing at the fact that Harry was injured by Cormac McLaggen during a Quidditch match. On 11 July 2014, Rita Skeeter remarked that Harry was "publicity-hungry" just as Ginny was approaching, and was subsequently taken "unaccountably ill" with what some called "a jinx to the solar plexus".[28] Ginny was also somewhat possessive of Harry. She was visibly displeased with the attention Gabrielle Delacour paid him, and spoke up when Harry's ex-girlfriend, Cho Chang, volunteered to take Harry to see Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem, insisting that Luna Lovegood take Harry instead.
Ginny gives Harry his seventeenth birthday present
In Ginny's fifth year, Harry started to fall in love with her as well. His feelings had presumably been developing since the previous year. She had reasserted herself as a vibrant, witty, and independent young woman, rather than an awkward and shy little girl. They had a lot in common — both played Quidditch, both had suffered at the hands of Lord Voldemort, and both showed great strength in defensive and offensive magic. Both have also fought alongside one another on a number of occasions. In the beginning of the year, Harry was slightly disappointed when, after a summer together, he remembered that Ginny did not normally hang around the trio at school. However, he did not realise the scope of his feelings for her until he and Ron ran into Ginny and Dean kissing. After witnessing them kissing, he frequently hoped that Dean and Ginny would break up.
"I never really gave up on you. Not really. I always hoped.... Hermione told me to get on with life, maybe go out with some other people, relax a bit around you, because I never used to be able to talk if you were in the room, remember? And she thought you might take a bit more notice if I was a bit more — myself."
— How Ginny never got over her feelings for Harry[src]
By the end of her fifth year, Ginny and Harry began dating after spontaneously kissing in the aftermath of Gryffindor winning the Quidditch Cup. They broke up shortly thereafter, as Harry realised that if they continued dating openly, Voldemort would seek to use her to get to him, as he had done previously. He simply could not bring himself to endanger her life while he sought a way to destroy Voldemort. Calling the break up an "act of nobility", Ginny accepted his decision, but always held onto the hope that he would return to her.[10] In spite of the break-up, their feelings for each other remained as strong as ever. On Harry's seventeenth birthday, Ginny "kissed him as she had never kissed him before," though they were interrupted by Ron, with Hermione in tow. Ron discouraged Harry from "getting [Ginny's] hopes up," mentioning that his sister was "really cut up" when Harry attempted to end their relationship. Hermione, on the other hand, seemed to be more sympathetic toward Harry and Ginny's actions.
Harry and Ginny express their love for each other during the Battle of Hogwarts
While hunting for Horcruxes, Harry would stare at her dot on the Marauder's Map for hours, hoping that she could somehow sense that he was watching over her. At school, Ginny participated in and helped lead an underground rebellion, during which she, Neville, and Luna even attempted to steal Godric Gryffindor's Sword from the Headmaster's office. They had heard that it was left to Harry in Dumbledore's will, and guessed that he needed it.[9] Harry and Ginny next saw each other shortly before the Battle of Hogwarts.
When the battle began, Harry wanted Ginny to stay out of the fighting, but was forced to ask her to leave the safety of the Room of Requirement when he, Hermione, and Ron searched it for Ravenclaw's Diadem. As Harry prepared to be killed by Voldemort, he thought of Ginny, "her blazing looks, and the feel of her lips on his."[9] When it seemed that Harry had been murdered by Voldemort, Ginny was beyond heartbroken and screamed louder than anyone. The supposed death of her one love was enough to drive Ginny to attack the incredibly powerful Bellatrix Lestrange alongside Luna and Hermione. When the battle was over she was one of the first ones that rushed to hug Harry.
A 40 year old Harry's and a 39 year old Ginny's continuing love for one another
Ginny and Harry rekindled their romance in the aftermath of the Second Wizarding War and were eventually married. The union produced three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus, and Lily Luna.[9] All three of the couple's children were named in honour of family members, friends, and allies (most of whom they are named after are deceased). Their marriage is shown to be mature and understanding, Harry also affectionately calls Ginny "Gin", rather than her full name. It is also revealed that after the events in the Chamber of Secrets, people shut Ginny out of their lives, but Harry came to her and played a game of Exploding Snap. Ginny claims that she also felt specific love from Harry since that day and that his love for her always made her feel stronger. The two made Ginny's brother Ron and his wife Hermione the godparents to their eldest son, and Neville Longbottom the godfather to their second son. They also have several nieces and nephews.
Despite their affectionate and passionate marriage, Ginny retained her ability to put Harry in his place over his actions and behaviours, such as when she forbade him from entering Albus's room during his disappearance.
Children
"He'll be all right."
— Ginny comforting her husband as Albus leaves for Hogwarts[src]
Ginny's children (left to right): Lily Luna, James Sirius, and Albus Severus
After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny had three children with Harry; two sons named James Sirius and Albus Severus, and a daughter named Lily Luna.
Lily looked like her mother and was jealous of her brothers, who were leaving for Hogwarts, exactly as her mother had been in 1991. Ginny comforted Albus (who physically resembled his father) when he was nervous about the possibility of being sorted into Slytherin house, and scolded James for teasing his brother. After James interrupted his cousin Victoire while she was kissing Teddy Lupin, Ginny noted how similar he was to Ron.
Nieces and nephews
As Ginny had five brothers who survived the Second Wizarding War, four of whom married at some point, she had quite a few nieces and nephews by 2017. Ginny's own children seemed closest to Ron and Hermione's children, whose son Hugo was the same age as Lily, and their daughter Rose was the same age as Albus.
Bill and Fleur's children were Victoire, Dominique, and Louis; Percy and his wife, Audrey, had Molly (named after her paternal grandmother) and Lucy; George married Angelina Johnson and named their son Fred after George's late twin brother, while their daughter was called Roxanne. When Ginny's son, James, discovered Victoire kissing Teddy Lupin at King's Cross Station, he proceeded to interrupt them and then run back to his family to triumphantly announce what he'd seen, prompting Ginny to compare him to his Uncle Ron.
Hermione Granger
Ginny: "Hermione told me to get on with life, maybe go out with some other people, relax a bit around you, because I never used to be able to talk if you were in the room, remember? And she thought you might take a bit more notice if I was a bit more — myself."
Harry Potter: "Smart girl, that Hermione."
— Ginny regarding her confidence in Hermione and the advice given to her[src]
Hermione Granger, a good friend and future sister-in-law
Hermione Granger was one of Ginny's best female friends and her confidante. Ginny was a year below Hermione in Hogwarts, and they had become close by Ginny's second year; Hermione comforted Ginny that year when the presence of Dementors upset her (Ginny was more affected than most others due to her possession by Voldemort the previous year). Hermione stayed in Ginny's room during her frequent visits to the Burrow during summer vacations.[25] Ginny was the only one that Hermione confided in when Viktor Krum asked her to the Yule Ball,[25] and the only one who knew that she had kissed him at least once.[10] Ginny also told Hermione about her teaching herself how to fly and about her relationship with Michael Corner before her family and most others were aware of either.[15]
Hermione gave Ginny advice on how to deal with her feelings for Harry[10] — advice that would lead to her going out with him and their eventual marriage. In the summer of 1996, when Hermione was staying at the Burrow, Ginny and Hermione openly disliked Fleur Delacour and criticised her together. Ginny appeared to be disgusted with her brother Ron Weasley, Hermione's love interest, when, after a fight with Ginny, Ron began dating Lavender Brown. However, Ginny was not afraid to stand up to Hermione when she felt she was wrong, for example when Hermione scolded Harry Potter for using the Sectumsempra spell.[10]
The two became sisters-in-law upon Hermione's marriage to Ron, and Hermione is the godmother of Ginny's oldest child. Ginny also had a niece, Rose Weasley and a nephew, Hugo Weasley, through Hermione's marriage to Ron.
Fleur Delacour
Molly Weasley: "...Bill and Fleur... well... What have they really got in common? He's a hard-working down-to-earth sort of person, whereas she's —"
Ginny: "A cow."
— Ginny's obvious dislike of Fleur's personality[src]
Fleur Delacour, her sister-in-law
Ginny did not care much for Fleur Delacour when she first arrived at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry for the Triwizard Tournament in 1994. She found Fleur humourless and irritating, as she was given to complaining loudly about what she perceived as Hogwarts' many faults. Fleur often compared the school unfavourably to Beauxbatons Academy of Magic. Ginny teased Ron for his schoolboy crush on her. She also disapproved of Fleur's engagement to her eldest brother Bill, whom Ginny looked up to.
Much to Ginny's displeasure, Bill sent Fleur to live with the Weasley family for a few days. During that time Ginny took to mockingly referring to Fleur as "Phlegm," and complained about Fleur's tendency to patronise her. However, when Bill became permanently disfigured by Fenrir Greyback and Fleur indignantly defended her husband's bravery, Ginny began to recognise Fleur's admirable qualities. The two eventually got along well, and Ginny even became a bridesmaid for her wedding.
After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny had two nieces and a nephew through Fleur's marriage to Bill.
Neville Longbottom
Neville Longbottom: "I'm nobody."
Ginny: "No, you're not."
— Ginny defending Neville against himself[src]
Neville Longbottom, a good friend
Neville asked Ginny to the Yule Ball after he was turned down by Hermione, who had already agreed to go with Viktor Krum, and the two attended together as friends. When Ron suggested that she go to the ball with Harry, who had yet to find a date, she was disappointed at having missed a chance to go with him, but remained faithful to her agreement with Neville.[25] Ginny defended Neville when others laughed at him, and told him not to put himself down when he described himself as "nobody."[15] She was also quite horrified when she heard that Neville's parents, Alice and Frank Longbottom, had been tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange and become permanent residents of St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries.
Ginny was among the friends who likely contributed to Neville gradually gaining confidence and courage, and, along with Luna Lovegood, the two of them maintained the strongest support of Dumbledore's Army throughout the Second Wizarding War. She and Harry remained close friends with Neville in their later years, as Ginny asked her son, James Sirius, to "give Neville their love" when Neville taught James Herbology at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.[9]
Luna Lovegood
"Ginny's been nice though, she stopped two boys from calling me "Loony" the other day..."
— Luna's positive opinion of Ginny[src]
Luna Lovegood, a close friend
Ginny was friendly with Luna Lovegood, a Ravenclaw student in her year, although the two did not grow close until they were both members of Dumbledore's Army in their fourth year. Ginny referred to Luna as "Loony Lovegood" just before introducing her to Harry and Neville in 1995, but soon stood up to those who ridiculed Luna.[15][10] In return, Luna genuinely appreciated Ginny's friendship; she once mentioned how much she liked Ginny while commentating on a Gryffindor-Hufflepuff Quidditch match in which Ginny was playing Chaser.[10]
Ginny was also one of the five portraits — along with Harry, Ron, Hermione , and Neville — that Luna painted and hung from her bedroom ceiling, with the message "friends" joining them together in gold writing.[9] Luna may be one of Ginny's best female friends (along with Hermione), as Ginny was only seen with these girls during her school years. Ginny later gave her daughter Lily the middle name "Luna", implying that the two remained very close well into adulthood.[31]
Nymphadora Tonks
"I'd much rather have Tonks in the family. At least she's a laugh."
— Ginny's sisterly friendship with Tonks[src]
Nymphadora Tonks, her friend
Ginny met Nymphadora Tonks in the summer of 1995 through the Order of the Phoenix, and she and Hermione immediately struck up a friendship with the young Auror. Ginny appreciated that Tonks, although an adult, was interested in having fun. She taught Ginny how to check if a door had an Imperturbable Charm on it by flicking Dungbombs at it. She also entertained Ginny and Hermione by displaying her Metamorphmagus abilities, usually at the dinner table.
In 1996, Ginny hoped her brother, Bill, would choose Tonks over Fleur Delacour — an idea Ron seemed to find laughable. After Tonks was murdered by her own aunt Bellatrix Lestrange during the Battle of Hogwarts, Ginny duelled Bellatrix, along with Hermione and Luna, although it is unknown if Ginny knew that it was Bellatrix who had murdered Tonks. After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny and her children were very close to Teddy, the son of Tonks and Remus.
Sirius Black
"Excuse me, but I care what happens to Sirius as much as you do!"
— Ginny regarding her liking of Sirius[src]
Sirius Black, her friend and husband's godfather
Though Ginny first learned of Sirius in 1993 as an Azkaban escapee convicted of killing 12 muggles, she was soon made aware of his innocence through her connections to the Order of the Phoenix and his godson, Harry. She and Sirius grew closer during their mutual time spent at the Order's headquarters, and she later told Harry that she cared about Sirius as much as he did, insisting on accompanying Harry to the Ministry of Magic, where they believed Sirius was being held and tortured by Voldemort. When Sirius and four other members of the Order arrived at the Ministry to rescue Ginny and her friends, who had walked into a trap and been attacked by Death Eaters, Sirius was murdered by his cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange.
Harry and Ginny were both horribly saddened by Sirius's death, and later duelled Bellatrix in the Great Hall during the Battle of Hogwarts. Ginny married Sirius's godson later and she and Harry gave their eldest son James the middle name "Sirius" in honour of him.
Dumbledore's Army
Cho Chang: "The Defence Association? The DA for short, so nobody knows what we're talking about?"
Ginny: "Yeah, the DA's good. Only let's make it stand for Dumbledore's Army, because that's the Ministry's worst fear, isn't it?"
— Cho and Ginny trying to find a name for Dumbledore's Army[src]
Dumbledore's Army, her friends and allies
Dumbledore's Army was an organisation founded by Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Ron Weasley in 1995, and led and taught by Harry Potter to oppose Dolores Umbridge, as well as offer students a place to learn and practise defensive magic. Ginny was one of the first to join, and the one who came up with calling the organisation "Dumbledore's Army," based on Cornelius Fudge's paranoid fears of Dumbledore mobilising Hogwarts students in a coup against the Ministry. She was also partially responsible for bringing several of its Ravenclaw members into the fold, as her then-boyfriend Michael Corner brought his friends Terry Boot and Anthony Goldstein with him to the first meeting.
Ginny was on good terms with most of the D.A., making them laugh with her highly accurate impression of Umbridge's signature cough and generally proving to be a skilled duellist; the major exceptions to this would have been Marietta Edgecombe, who betrayed the DA to Umbridge, and Zacharias Smith, whom Ginny once purposely crashed into after a Quidditch match, and who deserted the DA prior to the Battle of Hogwarts. Ginny also showed some wariness of Harry's ex-girlfriend, Cho Chang, when Cho wanted to take Harry to see Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem, insisting Luna take him instead. Ginny convinced her then boyfriend, Michael Corner, and his friends to join, and the DA may have been where Ginny first became friendly with Dean Thomas, whom she would date the next year.
Ginny, along with Neville and Luna, co-led the DA in opposition to Alecto and Amycus Carrow, during the 1997–1998 school year, writing slogans on walls and at one point attempting to steal the Sword of Gryffindor from Headmaster Snape's office.
Cho Chang
Cho Chang: "If you'd like to see what the diadem's supposed to look like, I could take you up to our common room and show you, Harry? Ravenclaw's wearing it in her statue"
Ginny: "No, Luna will take Harry, won't you, Luna?"
— Ginny's possessiveness regarding Harry and her mistrust of Cho[src]
Cho Chang, her husband's ex-girlfriend
Ginny always held an amount of jealousy toward Cho, as Cho was Harry's first crush, girlfriend, and shared with Harry his first kiss. Despite this however, Ginny was considerate enough of her that after Harry and Cho had broken up, she eventually advised Harry that things could be mended between them if he reached out to Cho but then was interrupted by Harry clarifying that he actually wished to talk to his godfather Sirius, making this advice null and void. When Cho offered to take Harry to the Ravenclaw common room so he could see the statue of Rowena Ravenclaw and her diadem briefly before the Battle of Hogwarts, Ginny cut across her and said that Luna would take Harry to the common room instead, implying that she still felt somewhat threatened by Cho and her still present crush on Harry.
Dean Thomas
Ron Weasley: "Just choose someone — better — next time."
Ginny: "Well, I've chosen Dean Thomas, would you say he's better?"
— Ron and Ginny about the latter's relationships[src]
Dean Thomas, her ex-boyfriend
Ginny started dating Dean Thomas at the end of her fourth year.[15] Ginny's brother and Dean's roommate Ron disapproved of the romance, as demonstrated by his furious reaction to stumbling upon the couple kissing passionately in a deserted hallway. They appeared to be very close at first, but, according to Ginny's friend Hermione Granger, things began to get rocky as Ginny became displeased with Dean for what she perceived as over-protectiveness, as Dean constantly tried to assist her in everything.
Ginny's enthusiasm about the relationship seemed to ebb by Christmas of 1996, as she did not seem terribly eager to see Dean upon her return to Hogwarts. The couple also began to row over little things, like Dean's constant attempts to help Ginny through the portrait hole into the Gryffindor common room, and they fought after Dean and Seamus laughed when Harry suffered a fractured skull courtesy of Cormac McLaggen.
Dean and Ginny on a date at the Three Broomsticks
Harry, under the influence of Felix Felicis, actually ignited the minor argument that led to their breakup when he accidentally brushed past Ginny climbing through the portrait hole; as Harry was wearing his invisibility cloak, Ginny thought Dean was once again attempting to help her, and snapped at him. Ginny clearly got over Dean soon after they broke up, as she began dating Harry soon after and admitted to him that she had never really given up on Harry. Dean took the break up much harder; he broke the glass he was holding upon witnessing Ginny and Harry's first kiss.[10]
Michael Corner
Ron Weasley: "Michael — but — but you were going out with him!"
Ginny: "Not any more. He didn't like Gryffindor beating Ravenclaw at Quidditch and got really sulky, so I ditched him and he ran off to comfort Cho instead."
— Ginny on her break-up with Michael Corner[src]
Michael Corner, her ex-boyfriend
Ginny and Michael Corner met at the Yule Ball in 1994, and began dating at the end of the school year, she used the relationship as an attempt to "move on" from Harry Potter. In 1995, she brought him and some of his friends along to the first meeting of what would become Dumbledore's Army. When the two duelled during meetings, Michael did not hit Ginny with anything, possibly because she was his girlfriend. When Michael drew unnecessary attention to the D.A. at one point, Ginny called him a "fool", though not to his face.
Ginny ended the relationship on the basis of Michael being a "bad loser," following Michael's poor reaction to Gryffindor beating Ravenclaw in a Quidditch match.[15] Michael went on to date Cho Chang, who, like Ginny, also had a romance with Harry Potter.
Hogwarts staff
Remus Lupin, her former DADA professor
Remus Lupin was Ginny's Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher during her second year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Lupin comforted Ginny after her first encounter with Dementors by giving her a piece of chocolate, and she likely believed, along with many other Hogwarts students, that he made an excellent teacher. Ginny and Remus met again in 1995, at 12 Grimmauld Place, and several times after that, as Remus was a member of the Order of the Phoenix and good friends with Ginny's parents. Ginny was thrilled when he married Nymphadora Tonks, and remained close with their son, Teddy, well after Tonks and Remus were murdered during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Ginny first met Rubeus Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper in 1992, during her first year at Hogwarts. Ginny seemed to be friendly with Hagrid, as they were both friends of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. At one point, Hagrid told Harry that he saw Ginny near his hut; he supposed that Ginny hoped to see Harry, and teased Harry for it. After the Second Wizarding War, Hagrid appeared to be friendly with Albus Potter, the youngest son of Ginny and Harry.
Albus Dumbledore, her former headmaster
Ginny, like many people, thought Albus Dumbledore was the greatest wizard of all time. Ginny met Dumbledore in 1992, during her first year at Hogwarts, where Dumbledore was Headmaster. Dumbledore comforted and reassured Ginny after she was possessed by a fragment of Voldemort's soul and manipulated into opening the Chamber of Secrets during the 1992–1993 school year. Ginny was one of the first people to learn about Dumbledore's death, and the only one able to console Harry afterwards. Ginny and Harry named her younger son after Dumbledore.
Ginny also happened to like Minerva McGonagall, her Transfiguration professor and Head of House. It is obvious that McGonagall could have been fond of Ginny since she was a talented witch and did not condone or tolerate bullying, something that McGonagall most likely valued.
Dolores Umbridge, her former DADA professor
Like nearly everyone else at Hogwarts, Ginny despised professor Dolores Umbridge, the ministry-appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts instructor for the 1995–1996 school year. Umbridge was a cruel, sadistic witch who enjoyed torturing students for punishment with the use of a Blood Quill, and attempted to take firm control of the school by passing a series of Educational Decrees. Ginny became a member of Dumbledore's Army in order to oppose her, as well to learn the practical defensive magic Umbridge refused to teach in class.
Severus Snape, her former Potions and DADA teacher
During the 1997–1998 school year, Ginny, along with Neville Longbottom and Luna Lovegood, re-formed and co-led Dumbledore's Army in rebellion against then Headmaster Severus Snape and Alecto and Amycus Carrow, two Death Eaters who had been appointed professors at Hogwarts and enjoyed punishing students with the use of the Cruciatus Curse.
Ginny showed particular dislike for the Potions master, Severus Snape as he was a cruel and very unpopular teacher. Aside from his creepy demeanour and snide attitude toward everyone, he had always favoured Slytherins because they were in his house and her particular dislike for Snape was something she shared with her brothers and friends. She also knew that he was part of the Order of the Phoenix and when she learnt that Snape killed Dumbledore, she thought he had betrayed the Order. She was also, obviously, not happy about his tenure as Headmaster when Hogwarts fell under Lord Voldemort's control. However, near the end of the Battle of Hogwarts, she learnt from Harry that he was on their side all along. It is unknown how she acted to the revelation of Snape's true loyalties. She did allow her second son to have his middle name from Severus.
Lord Voldemort
"...I was patient. I wrote back. I was sympathetic, I was kind. Ginny simply loved me... "No one's ever understood me like you, Tom... I'm so glad I've got this diary to confide in... It's like a friend I can carry around in my pocket..." If I say it myself, Harry, I've always been able to charm the people I needed."
— Tom Riddle regarding his manipulation of Ginny[src]
Tom Riddle, her enemy
When Arthur Weasley got into a fistfight with Lucius Malfoy in Flourish and Blotts prior to the start of Ginny's first year, Malfoy used the opportunity to slip Tom Riddle's diary into the pile of books Ginny was carrying. Though Malfoy most likely believed the diary was simply enchanted to open the Chamber of Secrets, it was actually one of Voldemort's Horcruxes, and in fact, contained a fragment of the Dark Lord's soul.
Tom Riddle's soul communicated with Ginny through his diary, sympathising with her problems and giving her advice, which made her emotionally vulnerable to Riddle's influence. Eventually, Riddle was able to possess Ginny, use her to open the Chamber of Secrets, and free Salazar Slytherin's Basilisk to petrify several Muggle-born students (including Hermione Granger). Ginny eventually figured out what she had been doing, despite having no memory of what happened during the times she was possessed, after finding herself covered in feathers and rooster blood. She attempted to flush the diary down a toilet, but being a Horcrux, it remained undamaged and later ended up in the hands of Harry Potter.
Ginny, worried the diary would reveal to Harry things she'd written about her feelings for him, stole the diary back. Riddle possessed Ginny one last time and had her enter the Chamber of Secrets, with every intention of killing her and using her life to restore his own. Harry, however, as a Parselmouth, was able to enter the Chamber, rescue Ginny, and slay the Basilisk with the Sword of Gryffindor. He then used one of the Basilisk's fangs to stab the diary, effectively making it the first of Voldemort's Horcruxes to be destroyed.
Upon speaking with Dumbledore about the diary's remains, Ginny and her family came to learn that Tom Riddle is the original name of Lord Voldemort, much to Ginny's horror. According to herself in later years, Ginny would never forget these experiences and comforted Harry when he thought he was suffering a similar experience.
Upon time travelling to the night of her parents-in-law's murder, Ginny was horrified by her husband's transfiguration into an exact duplicate of Voldemort, showing that she still despised him passionately. In her words, she couldn't stand to see the man she loved in the face of the man she hated.
Media
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince HD Clip (Trio at the Three Broom Sticks)
Ginny Snogs Dean
Harry Potter kissing ginny weasley
Ginny Kisses Harry
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 2 (Epilogue Scene - HD)
19 Years Later
Etymology
Ginevra is the Italian form of the name Guinevere, which means "fair one". Guinevere is also the name of King Arthur's wife in Arthurian legend, famous for her affair with Arthur's chief knight Sir Lancelot. There seems to be a pattern in the Weasley family of naming members after characters in Arthurian legend. Another famous muse bearing this name was Ginevra King, a socialite who inspired F. Scott Fitzgerald's character Daisy Buchanan in The Great Gatsby. The name Ginevra is also an Italian variant of Juniper, derived from the tree or berry. Junipers were often used to represent chastity in Renaissance-period art, such as in Leonardo da Vinci's Ginevra de' Benci.[32] With links to the Welsh and Celtic history, Ginevra also means virgin. In some cultures, Ginevra can mean "white shadow, or white wave".
Ginny's married name is Potter, a very common surname of English origin.[33] It traditionally refers to the occupation of making pottery. Beatrix Potter was a well-known English children's author. Potter's Field is the name for a burial ground for the unknown or unclaimed dead, particularly soldiers and orphans; the Potter family had many members that fit that description. The Potter Box is a model for making ethical decisions developed at Harvard University. J. K. Rowling has also commented that she has liked the name since childhood, as a family that had lived near her carried this surname.[34][35]
Behind the scenes
Ginny as illustrated by Mary GrandPré
Bonnie Wright as Ginny Weasley
Ginny Weasley as she appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Ginny as a LEGO mini-figure (second edition)
Ginny Weasley as a LEGO mini-figure (first edition)
Ginny Weasley as a POP! Vinyl
It is stated that Ginny looked forward to attending Hogwarts, ever since Bill began attending,[8] however since Bill began attending in 1982, when Ginny was only a year old, this seems unlikely as she would have been too young to realise what was going on. It is more likely that one of her earliest memories, likely from the age of three or four, would be of both Bill and Charlie heading off to school.
Harry and Ginny share a lot in common when it comes to Lord Voldemort-they were both temporary Parselmouths, they were both briefly possessed by Lord Voldemort and they have also lost family members to Voldemort.
According to Harry Potter, her most attractive feature is her red hair.
Ginny is portrayed by British actress Bonnie Wright in all of the film adaptations, making her one of the 14 characters to appear in all 8 film adaptations.
Wright has also provided the voice for Ginny in the video game versions of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
Bonnie Wright has blue eyes, instead of brown, as Ginny is described as having. She is also not as short as Ginny is described to be in the books.[36]
Bonnie Wright's favourite Ginny Weasley quote was "Good luck."
Ginny's role is shortened early on in the films. She has very few lines and only a few minutes worth of screen time in Chamber of Secrets. She only has one line and has not even one minute of screen time in Prisoner of Azkaban. Again, in Goblet of Fire, she has a very small role.
In the play of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Ginny is portrayed by the following actors:
Poppy Miller[37] (original West End and original Broadway)
Emma Lowndes[38] (West End Year 2)
Lucy Goleby (original Melbourne and Years 2 & 3)
Diane Davis (Broadway Years 2 & 3)
Susie Trayling (West End Years 3-5)
Angela Reed (original San Francisco and Year 2)
Sarah Schütz (original Hamburg)
Trish Lindström (original Toronto)
Ginny is voiced by Imogen Church in the audiobook version of Quidditch Through the Ages.[39]
Ginny wears the number 5 in her Gryffindor Quidditch team tunic in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. Many photographs and posters have her wearing number 6, but that is the number of the generic tunic she wore only for the try-outs.
Ginny's Patronus is a horse. It is never described in the books, but is shown in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. This was later confirmed by J. K. Rowling.
In the film adaptations, Ginny's relationship with Michael Corner was cut. However, it is included in the video game of the film.
J.K. Rowling has stated that she had planned certain moments, such as Ginny beating Cho Chang to the Golden Snitch during a Quidditch match, from the start as a subtle comparison between Ginny and Cho, showing that Ginny was a better match for Harry.[citation needed]
Many fans believed that "Ginny" was short for "Virginia." It was later established that Ginny's given name is "Ginevra", as her Great Aunt Muriel referred to her as such during Bill and Fleur's wedding in Deathly Hallows.
Several times throughout the series, some of Ginny's actions are described as being catlike.[citation needed] However, her personality does not reflect the style of her actions, as her Patronus is a horse instead of a cat.
J. K. Rowling revealed a picture via her official Twitter account on 18 April, 2016 showing her idea of some of the main character's wand designs, where Ginny's wand wood was revealed for the first time to be made from yew. Interestingly enough, both Harry Potter's wife and mortal enemy share the same wand wood.
Ginny has two soundtracks which are titled as Ginny and When Ginny Kissed Harry on the soundtrack for the film of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
Ginny Weasley and Harry Potter's romantic relationship is told in a slightly different way in the films from the novels of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Deathly Hallows: Part 1 and Part 2:
In the novel of Half-Blood Prince, Harry shares his first kiss with Ginny in front of the Gryffindor students in the Gryffindor Common Room after the Gryffindor Quidditch team won the Quidditch Cup. Also in the book, Harry ends his romantic relationship with Ginny at Dumbledore's funeral.
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Ginny and Harry go to the Room of Requirement together to hide the Half-Blood Prince's copy of Advanced Potion-Making, after he curses Draco Malfoy. While there, Ginny asks Harry to close his eyes while she goes and hides the book so that he and other students cannot find it. When she returns to Harry, she kisses him. Harry was very much delighted and surprised that he received a kiss from Ginny. Also at the end of the film, it is implied that Ginny and Harry are still dating.
In the novel of Deathly Hallows, Harry and Ginny kiss in Ginny's room in the Burrow and Ron interrupts them when he opens the door.
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, Ginny comes down to the sitting room and asks Harry to help zip up her dress. Harry and Ginny then share a kiss that gets interrupted by George Weasley.
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Ginny and Neville Longbottom are both climbing up on one of the staircases, and run into Harry during the battle. Neville ask Harry if he has seen Luna Lovegood, then he confesses to Ginny and Harry that he has feelings for Luna, he went away to find and tell Luna. Harry and Ginny share a quick kiss, Harry was going to tell Ginny that he loved her, but Ginny quickly told him that she knows, and they both went back to what they were doing before they met up. This did not happen in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows book.
In the book of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Ginny is wearing a golden dress at the Wedding of William Weasley and Fleur Delacour. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, she is spotted wearing a sliver and black dress at the wedding.
In the LEGO Harry Potter series, Ginny's actions towards Harry are set out differently:
Ginny Weasley in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
In Year 2, when she sees Harry arrive, she sighs and giggles at the sight of him. At Flourish and Blotts, she shows no interest in Lockhart and instead attempts to attract Harry. In the Chamber of Secrets, she shows no sign of worry or fear about her own and many other's near deaths, but simply smiles lovingly at Harry, hearts appearing over her.
In Year 4, she seems more concerned over Harry's faint in the Quidditch World Cup than anyone.
In Year 5, she appears to be greatly disappointed over the obvious feelings between Harry and Cho and desperately tries to beat Cho to it, narrowly failing. In the Department of Mysteries, she seems reluctant to go with Luna and Neville rather than Harry. While Harry is being possessed, she rushes up to see the events first and affectionately strokes his arm at the end of the year.
In Year 6, her relationship with Dean is cut and she seems more devoted to Harry as ever, flirting with him at the Burrow and even in front of every one else in the Slug Club. She also appears to have taken Harry to the Room of Requirement simply for the opportunity to kiss Harry.
In Year 7: Part 2, she arrives at the room of Requirement to see Harry. They run towards each other to kiss, but stop and just shake hands awkwardly.
The fact that her relationship with Dean was cut in Year 6 makes it unknown why Harry and Ginny did not attend the Slug Club Christmas Party together. However, they are seen dating in the beginning of the "Slug Club" level after the first cutscene.
Author's comments
"I think you can see that she is a fairly forceful personality (and she always has been, remember Ron saying that she 'never shuts up' in Chamber of Secrets)?"[40]
Ginny Weasley as depicted on Pottermore
"The plan was, which I really hope I fulfilled, is that the reader, like Harry, would gradually discover Ginny as pretty much the ideal girl for Harry. She's tough, not in an unpleasant way, but she's gutsy. He needs to be with someone who can stand the demands of being with Harry Potter, because he's a scary boyfriend in a lot of ways. He's a marked man. I think she's funny, and I think that she's very warm and compassionate. These are all things that Harry requires in his ideal woman. But, I felt — and I'm talking years ago when all this was planned — initially, she's terrified by his image. I mean, he's a bit of a rock god to her when she sees him first, at 10 or 11, and he's this famous boy. So Ginny had to go through a journey as well… I feel that Ginny and Harry, in this book, they are total equals. They are worthy of each other. They've both gone through a big emotional journey, and they've really got over a lot of delusions, to use your word, together. So, I enjoyed writing that. I really like Ginny as a character."[41]
"The backstory with Ginny was, she was the first girl to arrive in the Weasley family in generations, but there's that old tradition of the seventh daughter of a seventh daughter and a seventh son of a seventh son, so that's why she's the seventh, because she is a gifted witch. I think you get hints of that, because she does some pretty impressive stuff here and there, and you'll see that again."[42]
"Harry and Ginny are real soul mates. They're both very strong and very passionate. That's their connection, and they're remarkable together... I think she's like Harry. He's got an intellectual curiosity and she's got something of belief."
"Harry and Ginny were always meant to be together. I thought it was obvious, but apparently there were internet wars about this."
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 620 images related to Ginevra Weasley.
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (video game) (Appears on the Collectable Card)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (video game)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First identified as Ginevra Weasley)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (video game)
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child (play)
Quidditch Through the Ages (2018 audio edition)
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Harry Potter: A Pop-Up Book (Mentioned on prop of Howler included as an extra)
LEGO Harry Potter
LEGO Harry Potter: Building the Magical World
LEGO Harry Potter: Characters of the Magical World
Creator: Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey
J.K. Rowling: A Year in the Life (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
Harry Potter for Kinect
Harry Potter: The Character Vault
Harry Potter: The Creature Vault
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
External links
Harry Potter Lexicon page
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 Pottermore - Explore the Story: Ginny Weasley
↑ World Exclusive Interview with J K RowlingThe Weasleys are known British.
↑
3.0 3.1 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 16 (The Chamber of Secrets) - "She'd found out something about the Chamber of Secrets. That must be why she was —" Ron rubbed his eyes frantically. "I mean, she was a pureblood. There can't be any other reason.""
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
↑
5.00 5.01 5.02 5.03 5.04 5.05 5.06 5.07 5.08 5.09 5.10 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 6 (The Journey from Platform Nine and Three-Quarters)
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 3 (The Burrow) - "At that moment there was a diversion in the form of a small, red-headed figure in a long nightdress, who appeared in the kitchen, gave a small squeal, and ran out again."
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 3 (The Burrow) - "Harry just caught sight of a pair of bright brown eyes staring at him before it closed with a snap. "Ginny," said Ron."
↑
8.00 8.01 8.02 8.03 8.04 8.05 8.06 8.07 8.08 8.09 8.10 8.11 8.12 8.13 8.14 8.15 8.16 8.17 8.18 8.19 8.20 8.21 8.22 8.23 8.24 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
↑
9.00 9.01 9.02 9.03 9.04 9.05 9.06 9.07 9.08 9.09 9.10 9.11 9.12 9.13 9.14 9.15 9.16 9.17 9.18 9.19 9.20 9.21 9.22 9.23 9.24 9.25 9.26 9.27 9.28 9.29 9.30 9.31 9.32 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
↑
10.00 10.01 10.02 10.03 10.04 10.05 10.06 10.07 10.08 10.09 10.10 10.11 10.12 10.13 10.14 10.15 10.16 10.17 10.18 10.19 10.20 10.21 10.22 10.23 10.24 10.25 10.26 10.27 10.28 10.29 10.30 10.31 10.32 10.33 10.34 10.35 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
↑
11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 11.4 11.5 Times Online - The Unwritten Story of Harry's Friends and Their Children
↑ J.K. Rowling MSNBC Interview on Accio! Quote
↑
13.0 13.1 Pottermore - "New Cursed Child character portraits of Ron, Hermione and Rose Granger-Weasley"
↑
14.0 14.1 14.2 14.3 14.4 14.5 14.6 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
↑
15.00 15.01 15.02 15.03 15.04 15.05 15.06 15.07 15.08 15.09 15.10 15.11 15.12 15.13 15.14 15.15 15.16 15.17 15.18 15.19 15.20 15.21 15.22 15.23 15.24 15.25 15.26 15.27 15.28 15.29 15.30 15.31 15.32 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
↑
16.0 16.1 Although it has never been confirmed that Septimus and Cedrella are Arthur's parents, this can be inferred based on Sirius Black's statement in Ch. 6 of Order of the Phoenix that Arthur was "something like [his] second cousin once removed." The Black family tree establishes Cedrella as a first cousin once removed of both Orion and Walburga Black, Sirius's parents. Thus, any children she had would be their second cousins, and second cousins once removed of their sons Sirius and Regulus. Also, almost all of Sirius's relatives can be seen on the Black family tree as both his parents were born into the House of Black, making it unlikely that he could be related to Arthur in a way not shown. See also this talk page and an HPL essay for more information.
↑
17.0 17.1 17.2 Supposition based on existence of such an individual
↑ LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
↑ jk_rowling on Twitter (see this image)
↑
20.0 20.1 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
↑
21.0 21.1 21.2 21.3 21.4 21.5 21.6 JK Rowling web chat, 30th July (The Leaky Cauldron Transcript)
↑ World Book Day Chat, 4 March 2004
↑ Quidditch World Cup 2014: Daily Prophet reports from Pottermore (via The Internet Archive)
↑ Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 17 (The Man with Two Faces)
↑
25.0 25.1 25.2 25.3 25.4 25.5 25.6 25.7 25.8 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
↑ Pottermore - Diagon Alley: Daily Prophet offices
↑ "Read Ginny Potter's reports from the #QuidditchWorldCup starting today at http://pottermo.re/DailyProphet ! Family expected to join her for the final." - @jk_rowling Twitter
↑
28.0 28.1 Pottermore - 2014 Quidditch World Cup final (Archived)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see video)
↑ Quidditch World Cup 2014: Daily Prophet reports from Pottermore (via The Internet Archive)
↑ The unwritten story of Harry's friends and their children
↑ Symbolism of the name Juniper on Wikipedia
↑ Behind the Name: Rankings for 'Potter
↑ Scholastic Chat
↑ MuggleNet: Name Origins
↑ Bonnie Wright's profile at the Internet Movie Database describes her as being 5'6" (1.68 m).
↑ News: "Cursed Child reveals first look at Harry, Ginny, and Albus Potter in character" at Pottermore
↑ News: "New cast announced for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child London" at Pottermore
↑ https://www.pottermore.com/news/andrew-lincoln-to-narrate-new-digital-audio-book-of-jk-rowling-quidditch-through-the-ages
↑ JK Rowling's World Book Day Chat
↑ MuggleNet and The Leaky Cauldron interview Joanne Kathleen Rowling part 3
↑ The Leaky Cauldron and Mugglenet interview Joanne Kathleen Rowling: Part Three
Preceded by:
Lucius Malfoy Owner of Tom Riddle's Diary
1992-1993 Succeeded by:
Harry Potter
Preceded by:
Harry Potter Seeker of the Gryffindor Quidditch team
1995-1996 Succeeded by:
Harry Potter
Preceded by:
Lucius Malfoy Owner of Tom Riddle's Diary
1992-1993 Succeeded by:
Incumbent
Preceded by:
Harry Potter Seeker of the Gryffindor Quidditch team
1997 Succeeded by:
Unknown
Preceded by:
Angelina Johnson
Alicia Spinnet Chaser of the Gryffindor Quidditch team
1996-1997 Succeeded by:
Unknown
Preceded by:
Albus Dumbledore Secret-Keeper of 12 Grimmauld Place (along with members of the Order of the Phoenix who knew where was 12 Grimmauld Place)
1997-? Succeeded by:
Unknown
Dumbledore's Army
Founders
Harry Potter · Hermione Granger · Ronald Weasley
Leaders
Harry Potter · Neville Longbottom · Luna Lovegood · Ginny Weasley
Members
Gryffindor Katie Bell · Lavender Brown · Colin Creevey · Dennis Creevey · Seamus Finnigan · Angelina Johnson · Lee Jordan · Cormac McLaggen · Parvati Patil · Alicia Spinnet · Dean Thomas · Romilda Vane · Fred Weasley · George Weasley · Nigel Wolpert · Unidentified female · Unidentified female (II)
Ravenclaw Terry Boot · Cho Chang · Michael Corner · Marietta Edgecombe · Anthony Goldstein · Padma Patil · Maisy Reynolds · Unidentified male · Unidentified male (II) · Unidentified female
Hufflepuff Hannah Abbott · Susan Bones · Justin Finch-Fletchley · Ernie Macmillan · Zacharias Smith · Leanne · Unidentified female
Unknown House Luca Caruso · Alice Tolipan
Allies and other affiliations
Order of the Phoenix · Hogwarts staff · Augusta Longbottom · Andromeda Tonks · Ted Tonks · Percy Weasley · Oliver Wood · Grawp · Dobby · Winky · Hogwarts house-elves · Forbidden Forest Centaur colony · Hogwarts Hippogriff herd · Hogwarts Ghosts · Hogwarts students · Hogwarts Thestral herd
Order of the Phoenix
Founder:
Albus Dumbledore
Original Order of of the Phoenix:
Aberforth Dumbledore | Alastor Moody | Alice Longbottom | Arabella Figg | Benjy Fenwick | Caradoc Dearborn | Dedalus Diggle | Dorcas Meadowes | Edgar Bones | Elphias Doge | Emmeline Vance | Fabian Prewett | Frank Longbottom | Gideon Prewett | James Potter | Lily Potter | Marlene McKinnon | Mundungus Fletcher | Peter Pettigrew (defected) | Remus Lupin | Rubeus Hagrid | Severus Snape | Sirius Black | Sturgis Podmore
Reconstituted Order of the Phoenix:
Aberforth Dumbledore | Alastor Moody | Arabella Figg | Arthur Weasley | Bill Weasley | Charlie Weasley | Dedalus Diggle | Elphias Doge | Emmeline Vance | Fleur Delacour | Fred Weasley | George Weasley | Harry Potter | Hermione Granger | Hestia Jones | Kingsley Shacklebolt | Minerva McGonagall | Molly Weasley | Mundungus Fletcher | Nymphadora Tonks | Remus Lupin | Ron Weasley | Rubeus Hagrid | Severus Snape | Sirius Black | Sturgis Podmore
Order of the Phoenix allies:
Andromeda Tonks | Augusta Longbottom | Buckbeak | Dobby | Fawkes | Filius Flitwick | Firenze | Garrick Ollivander | Ginny Weasley | Grawp | Helena Ravenclaw | Horace Slughorn | Karkus | Karkus's wife | Kreacher | Lee Jordan | Luna Lovegood | McKinnon family | Mr Westenberg | Mrs Westenberg | Muriel | Nearly-Headless Nick | Neville Longbottom | Oliver Wood | Olympe Maxime | Rita Skeeter | Peeves | Percy Weasley | Pomona Sprout | Poppy Pomfrey | Sybill Trelawney | Ted Tonks | The Fallen Fifty | Westenberg family | Winky | Xenophilius Lovegood
Other affiliations:
Dumbledore's Army | Forbidden Forest Centaur colony | Headless Hunt | Hogwarts Hippogriff herd | Hogwarts house-elves | Hogwarts Ghosts | Hogwarts Staff |
Hogwarts students | Hogwarts Thestral herd | Ministry of Magic | Giant colony (Karkus's control)
Quidditch positions at Hogwarts
Captains
Filemina Alchin · Astrix Alixan · Orion Amari · Angelina Appleby · Oona Ballington · Concepta Battista · Hugh Biggs · Richard Carter · Angelica Cole · Stuart Craggy · Winky Crockett · Roger Davies · Cedric Diggory · Marcus Flint · Hamish Frater · Stephen Gould · David Hamblin · Natalie Holkham · Jody Jacknife · Angelina Johnson · Jo King · Neil Lament · Steve Laughalot · Graham Montague · Mark Overcliff · Andrew Snowy Owl · Harry Potter · Isobel Ross · Ashley Sanders · Lucinda Talkalot · Urquhart · Emma Vanity · Charlie Weasley · Rufus Winickus · Oliver Wood
Keepers
Kevin Bletchley · Miles Bletchley · Brennan Doyle · Andre Egwu · Herbert Fleet · Geoffrey Hooper · Cormac McLaggen · Grant Page · Ron Weasley · Oliver Wood · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Gryffindor Keeper · Unidentified Slytherin Keeper · Unidentified Keeper (I) · Unidentified Keeper (II)
Chasers
Orion Amari · Tamsin Applebee · Katie Bell · Bradley · Randolph Burrow · Cadwallader · Chambers · Roger Davies · Eekins · Marcus Flint · Rose Granger-Weasley · Jarrett · Angelina Johnson · Heidi Macavoy · Graham Montague · Ethan Parkin · Skye Parkin · James Potter · Malcolm Preece · Adrian Pucey · Demelza Robins · Zacharias Smith · Alicia Spinnet · Jeremy Stretton · Dean Thomas · Urquhart · Vaisey · Cassius Warrington · Ginny Weasley · Blaise Zabini · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Chaser · Unidentified Chaser (II) · Unidentified fourth year Chaser · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (I) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (II) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (III) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (IV) · Erika Rath's friend (I)
Beaters
Bean · Lucian Bole · Ritchie Coote · Vincent Crabbe · Peregrine Derrick · Dobbin · Gregory Goyle · Duncan Inglebee · Andrew Kirke · Michael McManus · Maxine O'Flaherty · Jimmy Peakes · Erika Rath · Anthony Rickett · Jason Samuels · Jack Sloper · Fred Weasley · George Weasley · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Beater · Unidentified Gryffindor beater · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (I) · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (II)
Seekers
Regulus Black · Cho Chang · Cedric Diggory · Andre Egwu · Harper · Terence Higgs · Gilderoy Lockhart · Draco Malfoy · Harry Potter · Summerby · Charlie Weasley · Ginny Weasley · Unidentified Gryffindor seeker · Unidentified Hufflepuff Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Substitute Seeker · Unidentified Seeker · Unidentified Seeker (II)
Unknown Positions
Vicky Bishopper · Robin Higgy · R. King · M. G. McGonagall · Katie Rayknolls · Erika Rath's friend (II)
Possible Players
Christian Alexander · Brandon Angel · Jada Angela · Owen Anthony · Tanner Van Burm · Haley Dakota · Jennifer Dawn · Fay Dunbar · Riley Frazer · Ethan Gerard · Ryan Henry · Erica J. · Ella Jo · Timothy Justin · Sage Kelleen · Luisa · Trinity Lynn · Trev Mallory · Alexis Marie · Gianna Grace Marie · Abigail Nicola · Amber Noel · Phelan Noel · Remy Olivier · Jackson Sheppard · Richard Sky · Emily Taylor · Alexander William
Quidditch positions
Keeper
Raul Almeida · Ralph Heidelberger · Jonny Nuhaka · Lev Zograf · Denison Frisby · Bastien Janvier · Hermann Wiel · Barry Ryan · Tamotsu Iwamoto · Darren O'Hare · Martin Helstrom · Oliver Wood · Sendelina de la Felino · Merwyn Finwick · Parkin · Grenouille · Kquewanda Bailey · Lenelle Paraison · Lachlan MacKenzie
Chaser
Alejandra Alonso · Fernando Diaz · Gonçalo Flores · Debbie Muntz · Gianni Fedele · Robert Green · Kenneth Hastings · Maria Monteith · Matthew Echunga · Unidentified Ballycastle Bats Chaser · Alexei Levski · Clara Ivanova · Vasily Dimitrov · Dragomir Gorgovitch · Avery Hawksworth · Edric Vosper · Keaton Flitney · Hildegarde Lafarge · Josephine Marat · Mathilde Mallard · Igor Brand · Kursten Blijk · Kurt Todt · Ginny Weasley · Wilda Griffiths · Moran · Mullet · Troy · Noriyuki Sato · Ryotaro Tanaka · Yoshihiro Suzuki · Alasdair Maddock · Fabius Watkins · Lorre Gustafson · Olaf Andersen · Peter Hansen · Ladislaw Zamojski · Catriona McCormack · Ana de Lebron · Carmen Garcia · Chavelle Arbelo Cartaya · Joscelind Wadcock · Petrova Porskoff · Parkin (Chaser I) · Parkin (Chaser II) · Parkin (Chaser III) · Gunhilda Kneen · Radulf · Otmar Frick · Willi Wenzel · Quentin Kowalski · Clairvius Hyppolite · Elodie Dembélé
Beater
Carlos Clodoaldo · Rafael Santos · Greg Ruczinski · Troy Duvall · Kelly Whakkaarangapawarau · Kylie Meadows · Finbar Quigley · Ivan Volkov · Pyotr Vulchanov · Joey Jenkins · Dawn Withey · Indira Choudry · Karl Broadmoor · Kevin Broadmoor · Alain Lacroix · Ninon Saucet · Elena Eldritch · Glockenspieler · Hesser · Katrina von Glockenspieler · Gwenog Jones · Connolly · Quigley · Minaka Hirakata · Keiko Takahashi · Asgard Pettersson · Asgeir Knutsen · Tiago Montoya · Dimitar Draganov · Vasco Santini · Parkin (Beater I) · Parkin (Beater II) · Ludo Bagman · Quintia Qarase · Narinder Singh · Ugga · Mercy Ojukwu · Aliko Okoye · Jean-Baptiste Bloncourt
Seeker
Tony Silva · Ariel Singleton · Maximus Brankovitch III · Gregory Cotton · Lucy Karoonda · Viktor Krum · Galvin Gudgeon · Blythe Parkin · Roderick Plumpton · Cybèle Peltier · Konrad Weiss · Josef Wronski · Glynnis Griffiths · Aidan Lynch · Shizuka Watanabe · Eunice Murray · Lennox Campbell · Tina Lundstrom · Benjy Williams · Dougal McBride · Inigo Fuente Marrero · Parkin · Joseph Snuka · Samuel Equiano · Bruno Bruunhart · Jacques Miskine · Darius Smackhammer · Shanice Higgins · Sylvian Jolicoeur · Luciano Volpi · Wladyslaw Wolfke · Thorsten Pfeffer · Hector Lamont
Unknown position
Arnold Vogler · John Talisker · Millie Gudabi · Goodwin Kneen · Dai Llewellyn · Ethan Parkin · Gwenog
Daily Prophet
Evening Prophet · Sunday Prophet
Regular features Other features
Index (page 01)
Good News (page 02)
Bad News (page 02)
Forecast (page 02)
Potions (page 03)
Magic Lottery (page 04)
E. Limus (page 05)
Astro News (page 06)
Spells (page 07)
International (page 08)
Abracadabra (page 08)
Hocus-Pocus (page 08)
Politics (page 09)
Ministry of Magic Affairs (page 09)
Sports (page 09)
Games (page 09)
Magic News (page 10)
Comment (page 10)
Arts & Warts (page 11)
Tricks & Trucks (page 11)
Opinion (page 12)
Puzzles (page 12)
Kids Corner (page 12)
Black Magic (page 13)
Local News (page 20)
Pink Magic (page 13)
Tragedies (page 15)
Jobs (page 15)
Showizbiz (page 15)
Health (page 16)
Fitness (page 16)
Ask D. Shaman (page 16)
Obituaries (page 17)
Classified (page 18)
Crossword (page 18)
Blablabla (page 19)
Dr. Medusa (page 20)
Magical Symbols Game
Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw
Me, Myself, and I
Weekly zoological column
Bestseller List

List of articles
Known personnel
Editor-in-chief: Barnabas Cuffe
Security Editor: R. Amorim
Reporters: A. Fenetre · Andy Smudgley · Betty Braithwaite · Chief sports writer · E. Limaria · E. Limus · Emma Squiggle · L. Limuria · Kit Gerrard · Miras Phlaras · M. Amerinus · M. Carneirus · R. Almeidas · Rita Skeeter · Talbott Winger's father
Columnists: D. Shaman · E. Limus · Dempster Wiggleswade · Helbert Spleen · Grizel Hurtz · Limunus · Dr Medusa · Winkus Oddpick · Zamira Gulch
Correspondents: Ginny Potter · Rita Skeeter
Photographers: Adrian · Bozo
Newspaper vendors: Paper-owls · Ministry of Magic newspaper vendor
Chief Consulting Magizoologist: Rolf Scamander