"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
"Point me!"
This article is about the criminal who made headlines on multiple occasions. You may be looking for the Red Haired Young Witch who appeared at Grindelwald's rally..
Ginger Witch
Biographical information
Nationality
American
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Hair colour
Red
Affiliation
Occupation
Career criminal
[Source]
The "Ginger Witch", known in France as "La Sorcière Rousse",[1] was an American[2] witch and serial criminal whose exploits made headlines in the wizarding world in the 20th century.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Criminal exploits
1.2.1 1926 investigation
1.2.2 Wig theft prosecution
1.2.3 1927
1.2.4 Bertie Botts recall
1.2.5 Hooliganism arrest
1.2.6 Flying pigs incident
1.2.7 Henna explosion
1.2.8 Fake henna scandal
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Little is known about the origins of the "Ginger Witch". She was born in the United States, presumably sometime in the late 19th century or early 20th century, and was living in The Bronx in New York by 1926.[2]
Criminal exploits
"Bronx Ginger Witch prosecuted for wig theft" headline in a 1926 issue of The New York Ghost
1926 investigation
The "Ginger Witch" found herself under investigation by wizarding authorities in November 1926. The Daily Prophet carried an exclusive report on the incident, calling the witch "mysterious," which suggests this might have been her first brush with the law.[3]
Wig theft prosecution
In late 1926, an article by M. Ralphous in The New York Ghost reported that the "Ginger Witch," who was described as being from The Bronx, had been prosecuted for stealing a wig.[2]
1927
In 1927, she was seen in Lyon, France, as reported by French newspaper Le Cri de la Gargouille.[1]
Same year, the No. 0227 edition of the magazine Spellbound claimed to unveil the witch's identity.[4]
Bertie Botts recall
In August 1993, the "Ginger Witch" was implicated in a product recall of Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans. The Daily Prophet reported that the witch was imprisoned and sent to the isolation wing.[5]
"Ginger Witch Survives Henna Explosion" headline in a 1995 issue of the Daily Prophet
Hooliganism arrest
In 1994, the Daily Prophet reported that the "Ginger Witch" attended a Muggle football match, where she was arrested for hooliganism.[6]
Flying pigs incident
In late 1994 or early 1995, an article by M. Amerinus in the Daily Prophet reported that the "Ginger Witch" was implicated in an incident involving two flying pigs, which interfered with the Muggle air traffic.[7]
Henna explosion
In August 1995, the "Ginger Witch" was caught in a henna explosion, but survived. The story made the front page of the Daily Prophet.[8]
Fake henna scandal
In 1996, the Quibbler reported that the "Ginger Witch" was arrested in Caxambu, Brazil with fake henna.[9] The magazine later reported that this scandal lead to her being sent to Azkaban.[10] She was eventually released from the prison on an unknown date.[11]
Behind the scenes
Eduardo Lima, a graphic artist who worked on every Harry Potter film from Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban onward, revealed that this character was inspired by Debbie, a red-haired friend of his and Miraphora Mina who worked as a buyer for the set decoration department. The pair of graphic artists gave her the nickname "Ginger Witch" and inserted a series of funny headlines about "The Ginger Witch" into the wizarding publications they designed for the film, including the Daily Prophet.[12][13]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) (Mentioned in a newspaper)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Mentioned in a newspaper)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (Mentioned in a newspaper)
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned in a newspaper)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (Mentioned in a newspaper)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (see this image)
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 "Harry Potter designers have been hiding a character in the movies' fake newspapers for years" from Business Insider UK (see this image)
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (see this image)
↑ Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (see this image)
↑ "Making the Magic Real" presentation by Miraphora Mina and Eduardo Lima, at LeakyCon 2013 (29 June, 2013) (see this image)
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) (see this image and this image)
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) (see this image)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (see this image and this image)
↑ (see this image)
↑ (see this image)
↑ (see this image)
↑ "LeakyCon: How Harry Got Its Style Part 3" on YouTube
↑ "MinaLima Interview at LeakyCon 2012" on YouTube