"Is this all real? Or has this been happening inside my head?"
The topic of this article is of a real-life subject that has been mentioned "in-universe" in a canon source. The Harry Potter Wiki is written from the perspective that all information presented in canon is true (e.g., Hogwarts really existed), and, as such, details contained in this article may differ from real world facts.
God
Biographical information
Born
Amortal (presumably, if real)
Died
Amortal (presumably, if real)
Physical information
Species
Deity
[Source]
"Bill! Thank God, thank God –"
— Molly Weasley hugs her son Bill after the Battle of the Seven Potters.[src]
God is the omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent and omnibenevolent being as defined by certain theistic and deistic religions (and other belief systems) who is most often conceived of as the supernatural creator and overseer of the universe. In many Muggle societies, God is usually a central figure in their religions.[1]
"So that's little Scorpius. Make sure you beat him in every test, Rosie. Thank God you inherited your mother's brains."
— Ron Weasley to his daughter upon seeing Scorpius in 2017[src]
Many wizards, witches and Muggles often used terms such as thank God and oh my God to express excitement, shock, awe, dismay, or supplication; analogous to the wizard-used Merlin's beard.[2][3][4]
While many religions share the same basic conception of God, they may differ over the ideas of the dictates passed down by him and how one may best serve him. This can sometimes lead to conflicts, and the creation of organisations such as Al-Hiraza, which engaged in actions designated as terrorism.[5]
See also
Jesus of Nazareth
Bible
Christianity
Islam
God Rest Ye, Merry Hippogriffs
Shrieking book
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑ God on Wikipedia
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 35 (Veritaserum)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 5 (Fallen Warrior)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Epilogue (Nineteen Years Later)
↑ Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film)