"Point me!"
This article is about the Slytherin student. You may be looking for Montague Knightley.
Graham Montague
Biographical information
Born
In or prior to c.1981[1]
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Title(s)
Quidditch captain
Chaser
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Hair colour
Brown[3]
Eye colour
Brown[3]
Skin colour
Pale[3]
Relationship information
Family members
Father
Mother
Maud Montague (possible relation)
Affiliation
House
Slytherin
Loyalty
Montague family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Slytherin
Slytherin Quidditch team
Inquisitorial Squad
[Source]
Fred Weasley: "He never managed to get all the words out, due to the fact that we forced him head-first into that Vanishing Cabinet on the first floor."
Hermione Granger: "But you’ll get into terrible trouble!"
Fred Weasley: "Not until Montague reappears, and that could take weeks, I dunno where we sent him."
— Fred Weasley on him and his twin George pushing Montague into the Vanishing Cabinet in 1996[src]
Graham Montague[3] was a wizard and Slytherin student who attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1990s. He played Chaser on the Slytherin Quidditch team from 1993 to 1996 and was a member of the Inquisitorial Squad. Montague was heavily built and had large, hairy forearms.[4]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 1993-1994 Quidditch season
1.2 1995-1996 Quidditch season
1.3 Vanishing Cabinet incident
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Etymology
6 Behind the scenes
7 Appearances
8 Notes and references
Biography
1993-1994 Quidditch season
While it is uncertain whether Montague was on the Slytherin Quidditch Team prior, Montague played in the final match between Slytherin and Gryffindor in 1994. When Gryffindor Chaser Katie Bell got possession of the Quaffle, Montague flew in front of her, but, instead of taking the ball, he grabbed her head. Although Katie was able to keep from falling off her broom, she dropped the Quaffle. Madam Hooch scolded Montague and awarded a penalty to Katie.[5]
1995-1996 Quidditch season
At the beginning of the 1995-1996 Quidditch season, Montague was made Captain of the Slytherin Quidditch team,[4] replacing Marcus Flint. He chose Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle to be the team's new Beaters.[4]
Vanishing Cabinet incident
The Inquisitorial Squad, which Montague was a member of
Montague joined the Inquisitorial Squad in April of 1996. During morning break on his first day as a member, he tried to take House points from Fred and George Weasley, but the twins shoved him into the Vanishing Cabinet before he could finish speaking.[6] While trapped inside, Montague could occasionally hear goings-on at Hogwarts, as well as at Borgin and Burkes, where the Cabinet's counterpart was located.[7] He managed to Apparate out the next day, despite never having obtained an Apparition licence, but ended up lodged inside a toilet on the fourth floor.[6][7]
Fred and George Weasley push Montague head-first into the Vanishing Cabinet
The Apparition nearly proved fatal to Montague.[7] He was left in a disoriented state for weeks afterwards.[8] In May, his parents, Mr and Mrs Montague, came to the school, looking furious.[8] Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger watched the couple arrive, and Hermione suggested that they should tell Madam Pomfrey what had happened to Montague, in case it would help her treat him.[8] However, both Ron and Harry dismissed this idea,[8] so Hermione apparently let the matter drop. Several weeks later, during the O.W.L. exams in June, Harry went to the Hospital Wing, where he saw Madam Pomfrey spoon-feeding a vivid blue potion to Montague.[8]
Montague eventually told his story to others, including Draco Malfoy, who was the only one to reach the conclusion that there was a connection between the Cabinet at Hogwarts and the Cabinet at Borgin and Burkes.[7] This knowledge gave Draco the means to allow Death Eaters to enter the school the following year.[7]
Physical appearance
Montague was described as being large and muscular, even more so than Crabbe and Goyle. He was also described as having hairy arms.
Personality and traits
Being the Captain and Chaser for the Slytherin Quidditch team, he was presumably rather ambitious and determined, being a member of Slytherin. He was most likely rather mean-spirited, having became a member of the short-lived Inquisitorial Squad, which persecuted Gryffindor, Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw students for petty and spiteful reasons. He once tried to deduct house points from Fred and George Weasley with ill-intent, which proved to be his downfall considering what they did to him as a result. He also showed poor sportsmanship whilst playing Quidditch, being inclined to commit fouls when he grabbed Katie Bell's head during the 1993–1994 school year Quidditch season and being penalised by Madam Hooch as punishment.
Magical abilities and skills
Apparition: Montague was capable of apparating, despite not having not received his formal Apparition licence, as he somehow managed to apparate out the Vanishing Cabinet that Fred and George Weasley shoved and trapped him inside one, quite an impressive magical feat.
Flying: Having been both the Captain and Chaser for the Slytherin Quidditch team whilst as a Hogwarts student, Montague was obviously a very accomplished and talented broomstick flyer and Quidditch player, despite his unsporting behaviour displayed on the Quidditch pitch.
Etymology
The name "Graham" is from a Scottish surname which was originally derived from an English place name which probably meant "gravelly homestead" in Old English. The surname was first taken to Scotland in the 12th century by the Norman baron William de Graham. Montague is also the surname of Romeo in Shakespeare's famous play Romeo and Juliet.
Behind the scenes
This character is known only by his surname in the Harry Potter books. His first name is given in the Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup video game, making him one of two Slytherins named Graham, the other being Graham Pritchard.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 4 images related to Graham Montague.
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film)
Pottermore
Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup (First identified as Graham Montague)
Notes and references
↑ He must have at least been in his second year in 1993. As well as this, Draco is implied to be a friend of Montague's, implying that the two are around the same age.
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 19 (The Lion and the Serpent)
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Chapter 15 (The Quidditch Final)
↑
6.0 6.1 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 28 (Snape's Worst Memory)
↑
7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 27 (The Lightning-Struck Tower)
↑
8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.4 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 30 (Grawp)
Preceded by:
Marcus Flint Captain of the Slytherin Quidditch team
1995-1996 Succeeded by:
Urquhart
Quidditch positions at Hogwarts
Captains
Filemina Alchin · Astrix Alixan · Orion Amari · Angelina Appleby · Oona Ballington · Concepta Battista · Hugh Biggs · Richard Carter · Angelica Cole · Stuart Craggy · Winky Crockett · Roger Davies · Cedric Diggory · Marcus Flint · Hamish Frater · Stephen Gould · David Hamblin · Natalie Holkham · Jody Jacknife · Angelina Johnson · Jo King · Neil Lament · Steve Laughalot · Graham Montague · Mark Overcliff · Andrew Snowy Owl · Harry Potter · Isobel Ross · Ashley Sanders · Lucinda Talkalot · Urquhart · Emma Vanity · Charlie Weasley · Rufus Winickus · Oliver Wood
Keepers
Kevin Bletchley · Miles Bletchley · Brennan Doyle · Andre Egwu · Herbert Fleet · Geoffrey Hooper · Cormac McLaggen · Grant Page · Ron Weasley · Oliver Wood · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Gryffindor Keeper · Unidentified Slytherin Keeper · Unidentified Keeper (I) · Unidentified Keeper (II)
Chasers
Orion Amari · Tamsin Applebee · Katie Bell · Bradley · Randolph Burrow · Cadwallader · Chambers · Roger Davies · Eekins · Marcus Flint · Rose Granger-Weasley · Jarrett · Angelina Johnson · Heidi Macavoy · Graham Montague · Ethan Parkin · Skye Parkin · James Potter · Malcolm Preece · Adrian Pucey · Demelza Robins · Zacharias Smith · Alicia Spinnet · Jeremy Stretton · Dean Thomas · Urquhart · Vaisey · Cassius Warrington · Ginny Weasley · Blaise Zabini · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Chaser · Unidentified Chaser (II) · Unidentified fourth year Chaser · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (I) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (II) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (III) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (IV) · Erika Rath's friend (I)
Beaters
Bean · Lucian Bole · Ritchie Coote · Vincent Crabbe · Peregrine Derrick · Dobbin · Gregory Goyle · Duncan Inglebee · Andrew Kirke · Michael McManus · Maxine O'Flaherty · Jimmy Peakes · Erika Rath · Anthony Rickett · Jason Samuels · Jack Sloper · Fred Weasley · George Weasley · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Beater · Unidentified Gryffindor beater · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (I) · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (II)
Seekers
Regulus Black · Cho Chang · Cedric Diggory · Andre Egwu · Harper · Terence Higgs · Gilderoy Lockhart · Draco Malfoy · Harry Potter · Summerby · Charlie Weasley · Ginny Weasley · Unidentified Gryffindor seeker · Unidentified Hufflepuff Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Substitute Seeker · Unidentified Seeker · Unidentified Seeker (II)
Unknown Positions
Vicky Bishopper · Robin Higgy · R. King · M. G. McGonagall · Katie Rayknolls · Erika Rath's friend (II)
Possible Players
Christian Alexander · Brandon Angel · Jada Angela · Owen Anthony · Tanner Van Burm · Haley Dakota · Jennifer Dawn · Fay Dunbar · Riley Frazer · Ethan Gerard · Ryan Henry · Erica J. · Ella Jo · Timothy Justin · Sage Kelleen · Luisa · Trinity Lynn · Trev Mallory · Alexis Marie · Gianna Grace Marie · Abigail Nicola · Amber Noel · Phelan Noel · Remy Olivier · Jackson Sheppard · Richard Sky · Emily Taylor · Alexander William