"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Headteacher of Hogwarts
Biographical information
Born
18th century or earlier
Title(s)
Professor
Headteacher
Physical information
Species
Human
Affiliation
Occupation
Head of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry (1792 or earlier -?)
Loyalty
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
[Source]
"Well, the Heads of the participating schools are always on the panel, because all three of them were injured during the Tournament of 1792, when a cockatrice the champions were supposed to be catching went on the rampage. It's all in Hogwarts, A History."
— Hermione Granger[src]
This individual was the Headteacher of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry during the 1790s.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
In 1792, the Triwizard Tournament was held at Hogwarts Castle, and this Headteacher welcomed the Head of Beauxbatons and Durmstrang to Scotland. One of the tasks involved catching a Cockatrice, which went on a rampage and injured the judges, including the Hogwarts Head.[1] This incident, along with the rising number of deaths during the tournament, was a contributing factor to the eventual termination of the Tournament, though there were a few unsuccessful attempts to revive it.
Behind the scenes
If this individual was Dilys Derwent's immediate successor, he/she would have been Head since 1768.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 15 (Beauxbatons and Durmstrang)
Preceded by:
Unknown, presumably Dilys Derwent Head of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
c. 1792 Succeeded by:
Unknown, eventually Eupraxia Mole