Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
"Is this all real? Or has this been happening inside my head?"
The topic of this article is of a real-life subject that has been mentioned "in-universe" in a canon source. The Harry Potter Wiki is written from the perspective that all information presented in canon is true (e.g., Hogwarts really existed), and, as such, details contained in this article may differ from real world facts.
Henry VII
Biographical information
Born
28 January 1457
Wales, Great Britain
Died
21 April 1509 (aged 52)
England, Great Britain
Marital status
Widowed
Nationality
English
Title(s)
King of England
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Relationship information
Family members
Henry VIII (son) †
Anne Boleyn (daughter-in-law) †
Mary I (granddaughter) †
Elizabeth I (granddaughter) †
Henry VI (half-uncle) †
Mary II (descendant) †
William III (descendant) †
George III (descendant) †
Victoria (descendant) †
Elizabeth II (descendant) †
House of Tudor
Romances
Elizabeth of York (wife) †
Affiliation
Loyalty
House of Tudor
England
[Source]
"I witnessed a great number of excellent concerts in the royal court of King Henry VII."
— Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington[src]
Henry VII (28 January 1457 – 21 April 1509) was King of England from his seizure of the crown in 1485 until his death.[1]
He was the father of King Henry VIII and the grandfather of Queens Mary I and Elizabeth I.[1]
Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington was a wizard at King Henry's royal court.[2][3]
Contents
1 Etymology
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Etymology
The name "Henry" comes from the Germanic name Heimirich which meant "home ruler", composed of the elements heim "home" and ric "power, ruler". It was later commonly spelled Heinrich, with the spelling altered due to the influence of other Germanic names like Haganrich, in which the first element is hagan "enclosure".
Behind the scenes
The portrait of Poderick Cruickshank seems to have been based on a 1505 portrait of Henry VII by an unknown artist.
Appearances
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (Indirectly mentioned only)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 "Henry VII of England" on Wikipedia
↑ Writing by J.K. Rowling: "Hogwarts Ghosts" at Wizarding World
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard - Albus Dumbledore on "The Wizard and the Hopping Pot"
Preceded by:
(←) Richard III King of England
1485-1509 Succeeded by:
Henry VIII