Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells & Harry Potter: Wizards Unite.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Ignotus Peverell
Biographical information
Born
12 July, 1214[1]
Godric's Hollow[2], West Country, England, Great Britain
Died
19 May, 1292[1] (aged 77)
Godric's Hollow[2], West Country, England, Great Britain
Blood status
Pure-blood[3]
Marital status
Married[4]
Also known as
Third Brother[4]
Physical information
Species
Human[4]
Gender
Male[4]
Relationship information
Family members
Antioch Peverell[4] (elder brother) †
Cadmus Peverell[4] (elder brother) †
Son[4] †
Iolanthe Potter (née Peverell)[5] (granddaughter) †
Ralston Potter (descendant) †
Abraham Potter (descendant) †
Henry Potter[2](descendant) †
Fleamont Potter[2] (descendant) †
Charlus Potter (descendant) †
James Potter I[2] (descendant) †
Charlus' son (descendant)
Harry Potter[2] (descendant)
James Potter II[6] (descendant)
Albus Potter[6] (descendant)
Lily Potter[6] (descendant)
Affiliation
Loyalty
Peverell family[4]
[Source]
"It was only when he had attained a great age that the youngest brother finally took off the Cloak of Invisibility and gave it to his son. And then he greeted Death as an old friend, and went with him gladly, and, equals, they departed this life."
— The Tale of the Three Brothers[src]
Ignotus Peverell (12 July, 1214 – 19 May, 1292[1]) was an English pure-blood[3] wizard, one of the three brothers mentioned in The Tale of the Three Brothers in The Tales of Beedle the Bard. The youngest of the three brothers, Ignotus was also described as the humblest and wisest of them, and had survived Death's cunning schemes due to these traits. He received the last of the Deathly Hallows, the Cloak of Invisibility, which was passed down through his family to the Potter family, and eventually to Harry Potter.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 The Deathly Hallows
1.3 Later life and death
1.4 Post-mortem
2 Personality and traits
3 Magical abilities and skills
4 Etymology
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Little is known about Ignotus Peverell's childhood. He was born into the Peverell family on 12 July, 1214[1] in the village of Godric's Hollow in the English West Country,[2] a younger brother to Antioch and Cadmus.
Being knowledgeable in the magical arts,[2] it is unknown whether the Peverell brothers attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, were home-schooled or learned about the magical arts on their own, autodidactically.
The Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter: "So it's true? All of it? The Peverell brothers —"
Albus Dumbledore: "— were the three brothers of the tale. Oh yes, I think so. Whether they met Death on a lonely road… I think it more likely that the Peverell brothers were simply gifted, dangerous wizards who succeeded in creating those powerful objects."
— Harry and Dumbledore during the former's time in Limbo[src]
Death reluctantly handing over a piece of his own cloak
According to Beedle the Bard in his work The Tale of the Three Brothers, Ignotus was the humblest and wisest of the three Peverell brothers. When the three brothers managed to cheat Death while travelling along a "lonely, winding road at twilight", Death pretended to congratulate them on their magic and presented them with a gift of their choice. Ignotus did not trust Death by any means. So, rather than ask for something to further his own desires, he requested the power to leave that meeting without being followed by Death. Death, not wishing to betray any hint of his true intentions, most begrudgingly took his Invisibility Cloak and gave it to Ignotus. Ignotus's two older brothers met terrible fates due to the murderous lust the Elder Wand created in wizards, and the limitations of the Resurrection Stone.[4]
It should be noted, however, that Beedle the Bard most likely employed artistic licence as some aspects of his story seem not to match actual aspects of the Peverells' lives (e.g. the story heavily implies that Cadmus Peverell killed himself before having descendants,[4] when in actuality he was a direct ancestor to the House of Gaunt[7]) and, as such, it should not be taken as an accurate account of the historical facts. As Albus Dumbledore himself theorised, it is much more likely that the Peverell brothers, as gifted wizards, managed to create the Deathly Hallows by themselves.[2]
Later life and death
Death takes Ignotus Peverell from this life, as his son is left with the Cloak of Invisibility
Ignotus most likely married at some point, having had a son,[4] and a granddaughter Iolanthe, who married Hardwin Potter.
Ignotus went on to live to seventy-six years, dying on 19 May, 1292[1] in his birthplace of Godric's Hollow.[2] He left his son his Cloak of Invisibility, one of the Deathly Hallows,[4] and was buried in the churchyard by the Parish Church of St. Clementine.[8] His date of birth and death however can be contested. Ignotus' granddaugter (Iolanthe) married the son (Hardwin) of Lindfred 'the Potterer' of Stinchcombe, a 12th century wizard. Ignotus can not have lived and died in the 13th century if his granddaughter married the son of a 12th century wizard.
Post-mortem
Ignotus's gravestone by the late 1990s
Hermione Granger: "Look at this! Harry, that's the mark in the book!"
Harry Potter: "Yeah… it could be…"
Hermione Granger: "It says Ig — Ignotus, I think…"
— Hermione and Harry come across Ignotus's weathered grave in 1997[src]
In 1899, Gellert Grindelwald stayed with his great-aunt Bathilda Bagshot in Godric's Hollow in an attempt to "explore the place the third brother had died" as he sought the Deathly Hallows.[2]
In late December, 1997, Harry Potter and Hermione Granger came across Ignotus Peverell's much eroded grave, where they noted the sign of the Deathly Hallows was engraved beneath the barely legible name.[8]
Personality and traits
According to legend, Ignotus was a very wise, modest, and humble young man, far more so than his two self-centered, arrogant older brothers. He was therefore far more shrewd and was the only one of the three to see through Death's deception. His request for something to hide him from Death, rather than something to enhance his own very personal glory, kept him alive for many happy decades.
Ignotus preferred a rather joyful, peaceful life, unlike his brothers. As such, he lived for many years with no quarrels or worries and raised a family. Ignotus saw to it that the very last thing he did in his life was pass the cloak on to his son, guaranteeing that his future descendants could live long happy lives as he had, and when he finally left the mortal world with Death, Ignotus had no regrets.[4]
Magical abilities and skills
Ignotus was described by Albus Dumbledore to be a gifted and dangerously powerful wizard.
Transfiguration: Ignotus could create a perfect bridge without fail alongside his two brothers via Conjuration, which was a complex form of magic.[4]
Magical manufacturer (possibly): Legend has it that Death was the original owner of the Cloak of Invisibility and handed it to Ignotus when he asked it.[4] However, some people like Dumbledore have speculated that Ignotus created the cloak himself.[2] To this day, the Cloak remains the only Deathly Hallow still owned and used, moreover by Ignotus's direct descendants. The Elder Wand and Resurrection Stone were never used again after 1998 further contributing to how Ignotus' humble nature ultimately proved vastly more successful than that of his brothers.[9]
Etymology
Interestingly enough, though not surprisingly, the word "Ignotus" is yet another of Rowling's uses of the Latin language. One meaning of the word is "unknown", which would make the name appropriate due to Ignotus' mastery of invisibility and successful concealment from even Death. It is also another form of the name Ignatius, which shows up throughout history, such as Ignatius of Loyola or Ignatius of Antioch.
Ignatius of Antioch's musings on death could link him to Ignotus's etymological origins. Theologically, Ignatius of Antioch considered salvation as one being free from the powerful fear of death. Furthermore he regarded the Christian Eucharist as a medicine for immortality and a remedy to escape death.
"Ignotus" (Latin word "īgnōtus") in addition to "unknown", may mean "forgiven", "strange", "unacquainted with", or "ignorant of".[10]
Some Christians have theorised that, if accepting "forgiven" as the meaning of the name, Ignotus' Invisibility Cloak may have some similarity to the concept of "the garments of salvation" and a "robe of victory"(Isaiah 61:10)[11]. In Christianity, it is suggested that becoming a slave of righteousness leads to holiness and thus eternal life (Romans 6) - as opposed to becoming a slave of sin, which leads to death. The concept of Jesus' death and resurrection granting forgiveness of sin (also Romans 6) might be interpreted as the "forgiven" being granted a "garment of salvation / robe of victory" and thus, defeating death.
If translating Ignotus as "strange", we might simply be seeing a bit of J.K. Rowling's quirky humour.
If translating Ignotus as "unacquainted with", we might consider Ignotus as unacquainted with Death for a lot longer than he perhaps should have been. However, as the story mentions that he met Death, then at the end of his life greeted Death as an "old friend"[12] he appears to have been acquainted with Death for much of his life.
If translating Ignotus as "ignorant of", we may take the meaning to refer to Ignotus' ability to hide, so that others were ignorant of him. It is an error to translate Ignotus only as "ignorant".
Behind the scenes
According to the book Nature's Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy, the surname of Peverell disappeared fairly early in wizarding history. It is said that Ignotus had a son. Not far down the line, one of his descendants must have given birth to a girl, which would explain why the surname disappeared so quickly. According to J.K. Rowling, James Potter got the Invisibility Cloak from his father.[13]
The Tale of the Three Brothers states that Ignotus died when he "attained a great age", but Harry Potter Film Wizardry puts his age at the time of his death as seventy-six, which is not considered old in wizarding terms. However, The Tales of Beedle the Bard are fairy tales and do not portray everything as it was in reality. Another possibility is that the average lifespan of wizards was shorter during the Peverell brothers' time. Seventy-seven may have been considered a great age for wizards in the 1200s because of the level of bloodshed and duelling involved in those days, with the average lifespan for ordinary humans during the Middles Ages usually being less than half that amount.
A fan hypothesis exists in which Ignotus is also the creator of the Pensieve, which keeps those invisible whilst in the past as opposed to the cloak which hides those in the present.
Both Ignotus and his descendant Harry Potter were born in July and seem to share similar traits.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 23 images related to Ignotus Peverell.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (Appears in flashback(s))
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Appears in flashback(s))
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (First appearance)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Harry Potter Film Wizardry (see this image and this image)
↑
2.00 2.01 2.02 2.03 2.04 2.05 2.06 2.07 2.08 2.09 2.10 2.11 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 35 (King's Cross)
↑
3.0 3.1 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 22 (The Deathly Hallows) - "The only place I’ve managed to find the name ‘Peverell’ is Nature’s Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy. I borrowed it from Kreacher,” she explained as Ron raised his eyebrows. “It lists the pure-blood families that are now extinct in the male line. Apparently the Peverells were one of the earliest families to vanish.”"
↑
4.00 4.01 4.02 4.03 4.04 4.05 4.06 4.07 4.08 4.09 4.10 4.11 4.12 4.13 4.14 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 21 (The Tale of the Three Brothers)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 22 (The Deathly Hallows)
↑
6.0 6.1 6.2 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Epilogue (Nineteen Years Later)
↑ Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 10 (The House of Gaunt)
↑
8.0 8.1 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 16 (Godric's Hollow)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 36 (The Flaw in the Plan)
↑ [1]
↑ http://mechon-mamre.org/p/pt/pt1061.htm
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard (real)
↑ "America Online chat transcript, AOL.com, 19 October 2000" on Accio Quote
Preceded by:
Death or none Owner of the Cloak of Invisibility
12??-1291 Succeeded by:
Unnamed Son
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
By Beedle the Bard
Stories
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump · The Fountain of Fair Fortune · The Warlock's Hairy Heart · The Tale of the Three Brothers · The Wizard and the Hopping Pot
Characters
Altheda · Amata · Amata's lover · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's enemy · Antioch Peverell's killer · Asha · Babbitty · Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Cadmus Peverell · Cadmus Peverell's fiancée · Captain of the Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Charlatan · Death · Evil Sorcerer · Gigantic white worm · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · King · Kinsfolk · Maiden · Old man · Old man's donkey · Old man's family · Peasant woman · Peasant woman's granddaughter · Sabre · Sir Luckless · Warlock · Warlock's family · The Warlock's friends · Wizard · Wizard's father · Young woman · Young woman's child
Objects
Altheda's potion · Altheda's wand · Cloak of Invisibility · Creepers · Crystal casket · Elder Wand · Enchanted garden · Fountain · Gold statue of Babbitty · Hairy Heart · The Hopping Pot · Never-ending hill · Poisonous toadstool · Poultice for warts · Resurrection Stone · Silver chalice
Known owners of the Deathly Hallows
Elder Wand
Death (Manufacturer) · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's killer · Emeric the Evil · Egbert the Egregious · Godelot · Hereward · Barnabas Deverill · Loxias · Arcus and/or Livius · Mykew Gregorovitch · Gellert Grindelwald · Albus Dumbledore · Draco Malfoy (Master Only) · Tom Riddle (Owner Only) · Harry Potter · (Interred)
Resurrection Stone
Death (Manufacturer) · Cadmus Peverell · Unidentified Gaunt · (Generations of Gaunts) · Corvinus Gaunt · Marvolo Gaunt · Morfin Gaunt · Tom Riddle · Albus Dumbledore · Harry Potter · (Lost)
Cloak of Invisibility
Death (Manufacturer) · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · Iolanthe Potter · Unidentified Potter · (Generations of Potters) · Henry Potter · Fleamont Potter · James Potter · Albus Dumbledore (Owner Only) · Harry Potter · James S. Potter · Albus Potter