"Harry, your eyesight really is awful."
The title of this article is transcribed from an image. Due to several factors, including poor image quality and difficult-to-read fonts/handwriting, it may have been transcribed incorrectly. If you have a higher quality version of the source image, or a more accurate reading of the text, please visit this article's Talk Page.
L. O'Sullivan
Physical information
Species
Human
Affiliation
Occupation
Magical Congress of the United States of America employee
Loyalty
Magical Congress of the United States of America
[Source]
L. O'Sullivan was an American wizard or witch who worked for the Magical Congress of the United States of America in the 1920s.[1]
Biography
On 7 December 1926, Y. Blishen sent a rat memo to "all 2nd Floor Sorcery Staff," including L. O'Sullivan. The memo notified recipients that, following a vote approving the Calufrax Edict, wand permit requests from aliens (non-U.S. citizens) would have to be filed with a variety of new codes.[1]
Appearances
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned on a document)
The Case of Beasts: Explore the Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (Mentioned on a document)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 The Case of Beasts: Explore the Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (see this image)
Magical Congress of the United States of America
Presidents
Josiah Jackson (1693-?) · Charity Wilkinson · Thornton Harkaway (c. 1760) · Able Fleming · Elizabeth McGilliguddy (c. 1777) · Emily Rappaport (c. 1790) · Seraphina Picquery (1920-1928) · Samuel G. Quahog (c. 2014)
Aurors
Abraham Potter · Achilles Tolliver · Berthilde Roche · Carlos Lopez · Cas Carneirus · Cormac O'Brien · E. A. Limus · Gondulphus Graves · Helmut Weiss · M. L. Minus · M. P. Carneirus · Mary Jauncey · Mungo MacDuff · Percival Graves · Porpentina Goldstein · Robert Grimsditch · Saranna Wilkinson · Theodard Fontaine · Wilhelm Fischer · Unidentified MACUSA Aurors
Other positions
Apparition Examiner · Auror Commissioner · Captain of Aurors · Chief Auror · Chief of Staff · Director of Magical Security · Executioner · Federal Identity Commissioner · Federal Wand Permit Officer · Keeper of Treasure and Dragots · Obliviator ·Surveillor of Activity
Other employees
Abernathy · Albert Perschky · Aristotle Twelvetrees · Bernadette · Beryl · Cecily · E. A. Limus · F. Wakefield · Irene Kneedander · J. Ward · L. O'Sullivan · Magali Crowe · Paloma Proudfoot · Queenie Goldstein · Red · Ruby · Sam · Unidentified executioner (I) · Unidentified executioner (II) · Unidentified guide · Y. Blishen
Departments
Body for Protection of Magical Species · Department of Aurors · Department of Magical Law Enforcement · Department of No-Maj Misinformation · Department of Unidentifiable Magical Objects · Department for Confiscated Items · Federal Bureau of Covert Vigilance and No-Maj Obliviation · MACUSA Communications Department · MACUSA Investigation Department · MACUSA Surveillance Wizarding Resources Department · Magical Cleaning Department · Major Investigation Department · Office for Magic Relations and Education · US Auror Divisions · Wand Permit Department · Wizarding Resources Department
Locations
Death Cell · Great Meeting Chamber · Lobby · No-Maj Fraternisation sub-division · Pentagram Office · Percival Graves' office · Register Office · Typing Pool · Wand Permit Office · Young Wizards Daycare Center