Laurena Kama
Biographical information
Born
before 1867[1]
Died
Between September 1896 and late April, 1897[2][3]
Lestrange Manor
Blood status
Pure-blood
Marital status
Married
Nationality
French
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Relationship information
Family members
Mustafa Kama (first husband) †
Corvus Lestrange (second husband, unwillingly) †
Yusuf Kama (son)
Leta Lestrange (daughter) †
Corvus Lestrange (father-in-law)
Eglantine Lestrange (mother-in-law)
Kama family
Lestrange family
Affiliation
Loyalty
Kama family
Lestrange family (unwillingly)
[Source]
Laurena Kama (fl. 1896) was a French pure-blood witch, wife to Mustafa Kama and the coerced wife of Corvus Lestrange. She was the mother of both Yusuf Kama and Leta Lestrange.[4]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
Hailing from a pure-blood family and happily married to the Senegalese pure-blood Mustafa Kama, Laurena was put under the Imperius Curse by Corvus Lestrange and forced to bear a daughter with him. Laurena died after giving birth to Leta Lestrange.[2]
Behind the scenes
Laurena Kama is played by Isaura Barbé-Brown in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.[5]
Though her marriage to Corvus was not directly stated, it is strongly implied by Yusuf's words that Corvus "remarried not three months after her death".[6]
Her second marriage can be seen as similar to that of Merope Riddle and Tom Riddle Snr. Both Laurena and Riddle Senior were forced into marriage and did not rear the resultant children. Riddle Senior abandoned his son, Tom Riddle, whereas Laurena died giving birth, possibly similar to Merope who died an hour after giving birth.
It is also noteworthy that Corvus used the Imperius Curse as opposed to a love potion as to prevent any ill effects on his daughter.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 7 images related to Laurena Kama.
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay (First appearance)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Notes and references
↑ Yusuf Kama was 12 years old in 1896. As Laurena was his mother, she had to be older than he, and was presumably at least 17 at the time he was born in 1884.
↑
2.0 2.1 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay, Scene 101 specifies Leta was conceived in 1896, meaning she must have been born in the year's ninth month or later, and also reveals Laurena died giving birth to Leta.
↑ Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay, Scene 67 - Leta is revealed as being already 13 towards the end of the 1910 winter term, thus she can't have been born any later than April 1897.
↑ 'Fantastic Beasts' 2 spoilers out on Yusuf Kama's ties to Leta Lestrange & Credence at Snitch Seeker
↑ http://www.imdb.com/name/nm3769549/?ref_=ttfc_fc_cl_t65
↑ Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay, Scene 103