Magical Menagerie saleswoman
Biographical information
Nationality
British[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Female[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Saleswoman at Magical Menagerie[1]
Loyalty
Magical Menagerie[1]
[Source]
Ron Weasley: "It’s my rat. He’s been a bit off-colour ever since I brought him back from Egypt."
Saleswoman: "Bang him on the counter. Hm. How old is this rat?"
Ron Weasley: "Dunno. Quite old. He used to belong to my brother."
Saleswoman: "What powers does he have?"
Ron Weasley: "Er –"
Saleswoman: "He’s been through the mill, this one."
Ron Weasley: "He was like that when Percy gave him to me."
Saleswoman: "An ordinary, common or garden rat like this can’t be expected to live longer than three years or so. Now, if you were looking for something a bit more hard-wearing, you might like one of these ..."
Ron Weasley: "Show-offs."
Saleswoman: "Well, if you don’t want a replacement, you can try this Rat Tonic."
Ron Weasley: "OK. How much – OUCH!"
Saleswoman: "NO, Crookshanks, NO!"
— Ron Weasley seeking treatment for Scabbers at the Magical Menagerie[src]
This saleswoman was a British witch and the proprietor of Magical Menagerie, which is one of two major pet shops in Diagon Alley.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
In 1991, she was willing to give Harry Potter some warts from a Giant Purple Toad if he could catch it.[2] In 1992, she was absent, possibly on vacation, and a man had to do her job.[3] She advised a customer on how to take care of a double-ended newt, sold Ron Weasley a bottle of rat tonic for Scabbers during the summer of 1993, and sold Crookshanks to Hermione Granger at that time as well.[1]
Behind the scenes
The Magical Menagerie saleswoman is omitted from the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, since Hermione already has Crookshanks with her by the time Harry was reunited with her and Ron.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (PS1 version)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (First appearance)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4 (DS and IPhone version)
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Chapter 4 (The Leaky Cauldron)
↑ Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game)
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game)
Diagon Alley North Side
Locations
Apothecary · Bats! Bats! Bats! · Belcher's Bottled Beers · Bernie Balls Fireworks · Blinkhorn's workshop · Boogermongers · Brigg's Brooms · Bufo's · Caput Mortuum · Creepy Scrawlers Stationers · Crispa Culpepper's Drugs & Preparations · Eeylops Owl Emporium · Flail & Hyde Furriers · Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlour · Flourish and Blotts · Gaberlunzie Garments · Grandma Gramercy's Grandiloquent Gramophones · Gringotts Wizarding Bank · The Harpy's Bazaar · Herbert's Sherbets · Janus Galloglass · Krakens · Leaky Cauldron (1 Diagon Alley) · Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions · The Magic Lantern · Magical Menagerie · Mandrake Mufflers · Marcus Minucius Myomancer · Mourning & Starr Armourers · Mr Milvus Grizedale, Kitemaker · Mr Trismus, Mouth Magician · Mulligrubs Materia Medica · Nell's Bells · Nollikins for Scrolls & Skins · Noltie's Botanical Novelties · Oldknowe Books · Pettichaps · Potage's Cauldron Shop · Praedico Predico · Quality Quidditch Supplies · Shrew & Scold's Bridal Wear · S. Starling · Tangle & Noils Wigmakers & Perruquiers · The Three Sheets · Tut's Nuts · Twinkle's Telescopes · Vietch's Leeches · What Larks! Songbird Specialists · Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment
Known residents, shop owners and employees
Blinkhorn · Crookshanks (formerly) · Eeylops Owl Emporium female employee · Eeylops Owl Emporium male employee · Florean Fortescue (deceased) · Flourish and Blotts manager · Hedwig (formerly; deceased) · Madam Malkin · Madam Potage · Magical Menagerie salesman · Magical Menagerie saleswoman · Marcus Minucius · Tut · Twinkle · Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment employee