"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Magical Menagerie salesman
Biographical information
Nationality
British[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Hair colour
Grey[1]
Skin colour
Light[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Salesman at the Magical Menagerie[1]
Loyalty
Magical Menagerie[1]
[Source]
This individual was a British wizard who worked as a salesman at the Magical Menagerie in Diagon Alley.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
This wizard conjuring Christmas decorations
Sometime in 1992, he was hired as a temporary salesman for the Magical Menagerie, as the usual saleswoman was on holiday. He was very stingy during morning hours and did not allow people to enter the shop, however in the afternoon he was willing to give Harry Potter some lacewing flies if he could catch them. Harry was warned of this man's morning grumpiness by a note from his friend Ronald Weasley.[1]
In December 1992, he used a spell to conjure decorations for Christmas in the shop.[1]
Behind the scenes
In the PS1 version of the video game adaption of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets the individual is old and will not allow Harry to destroy the crates in the shop, however in the console version he is also very stingy and will not let people inside the Menagerie. In the GBA version Ronald Weasley describes him as miserable and old in a note to Harry that says he should be careful as the salesman would throw those out who sneak around.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game)
Diagon Alley North Side
Locations
Apothecary · Bats! Bats! Bats! · Belcher's Bottled Beers · Bernie Balls Fireworks · Blinkhorn's workshop · Boogermongers · Brigg's Brooms · Bufo's · Caput Mortuum · Creepy Scrawlers Stationers · Crispa Culpepper's Drugs & Preparations · Eeylops Owl Emporium · Flail & Hyde Furriers · Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlour · Flourish and Blotts · Gaberlunzie Garments · Grandma Gramercy's Grandiloquent Gramophones · Gringotts Wizarding Bank · The Harpy's Bazaar · Herbert's Sherbets · Janus Galloglass · Krakens · Leaky Cauldron (1 Diagon Alley) · Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions · The Magic Lantern · Magical Menagerie · Mandrake Mufflers · Marcus Minucius Myomancer · Mourning & Starr Armourers · Mr Milvus Grizedale, Kitemaker · Mr Trismus, Mouth Magician · Mulligrubs Materia Medica · Nell's Bells · Nollikins for Scrolls & Skins · Noltie's Botanical Novelties · Oldknowe Books · Pettichaps · Potage's Cauldron Shop · Praedico Predico · Quality Quidditch Supplies · Shrew & Scold's Bridal Wear · S. Starling · Tangle & Noils Wigmakers & Perruquiers · The Three Sheets · Tut's Nuts · Twinkle's Telescopes · Vietch's Leeches · What Larks! Songbird Specialists · Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment
Known residents, shop owners and employees
Blinkhorn · Crookshanks (formerly) · Eeylops Owl Emporium female employee · Eeylops Owl Emporium male employee · Florean Fortescue (deceased) · Flourish and Blotts manager · Hedwig (formerly; deceased) · Madam Malkin · Madam Potage · Magical Menagerie salesman · Magical Menagerie saleswoman · Marcus Minucius · Tut · Twinkle · Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment employee