"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Maiden
Biographical information
Died
On her wedding day[1]
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood[2]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Female[1]
Hair colour
Long, blonde and straight[1]
Skin colour
White[1]
Relationship information
Family members
Her Kinsfolk[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Her Kinsfolk[1]
[Source]
"She was a witch of prodigious skill and possessed of much gold."
— Description[src]
The Maiden is the female protagonist of the children's tale, The Warlock's Hairy Heart in The Tales of Beedle the Bard, a collection of stories written by Beedle the Bard.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 The Warlock
1.2 Murder
2 Relationships
2.1 Warlock
2.2 Her kinsfolk
3 Physical appearance
4 Personality and traits
5 Magical abilities and skills
6 Appearances
7 Notes and references
Biography
The Warlock
"It might have taken the warlock fifty years to find such a woman, yet it so happened that the very day after he decided to seek her, a maiden answer his every wish arrived in the neighbourhood to visit her kinsfolk"
— The Warlock meets the maiden[src]
The maiden attending the warlock's feast
The Warlock decided to find an astoundingly beautiful, magically talented, and wealthy wife, so that he is envied by all, and it just so happened that he found a maiden who met every expectation the very next day. The maiden was fascinated as well as repelled by the Warlock's cold and reclusive personality, but agreed to attend a feast at his castle. The Warlock attempted to flatter the maiden, but she confronted him saying that she would only believe these lovely words if she thought he had a heart. The Warlock thus took her down to the dungeon of the castle and showed her an enchanted crystal casket, within which lay his own beating heart.[1]
Murder
"Now you are healed and will know true love!"
— The maiden[src]
The Warlock and the Maiden's dead bodies
Horrified, the maiden asked him to put the heart back inside his chest, and so he does. The maiden is so pleased that she runs forwards and embraces him. The heart, however, has become horrible in the long time that it has been separated from the body, and the scent of her golden hair, the silken touch of her soft white arms, and the gentle musical sound of her breath in his ear all pierced it.[1]
The Warlock cut her breast open, so he could exchange her heart for his hairy one.[1]
Relationships
Warlock
The Warlock and the Maiden
"You speak well, Warlock, and I would be delighted by your attentions, if only I thought you had a heart!"
— The maiden confronting the Warlock[src]
When she met the warlock, she was fascinated as well as repelled by him, but agrees to attend a feast at his castle. The Warlock attempted to flatter the maiden, but she confronts him saying that she would only believe these lovely words if she thought he had a heart. The warlock then took her to the deepest dungeon to show his most valuable treasure, his own beating heart. The maiden was repelled by the beating heart and made the Warlock put it back in his chest. Once he had done so, the smell of her hair as well as the beauty of her skin pierced his newly awakened heart. Soon he kills the maiden in an attempt to exchange his own heart for hers. Having always disregarded love as a sign of weakness, coupled with his newfound inhumanity, the warlock felt absolutely no sadness nor regret in killing the maiden.[1]
Her kinsfolk
"Her kinsfolk, however, deemed theirs a most suitable match and, eager to promote it, accepted the warlock's invitation to a great feast in the maiden's honour"
— The kinsfolk[src]
The maiden came to visit her kinsfolk, when she met the Warlock. Even though the maiden thought that the warlock was strange and remote, the kinsfolk deemed them as a most suitable match and were eager to promote, therefore they accepted the warlock's invitation to a great feast in the maiden's honour.[1]
Physical appearance
"Her beauty was such that it tugged the heart of every man who set eyes on her..."
— The maiden's beauty[src]
The maiden is described as having heavy golden hair, silken white skin, and a soft, musical voice; she was of such outstanding beauty, that she tugged the heart of every man (aside from the literally heartless Warlock) who set eyes on her.[1]
Personality and traits
"... the unnamed maiden of The Warlock's Hairy Heart - acts more like our idea of a story book princess"
— J. K. Rowling[src]
The unnamed maiden acts more like the idea of a Muggle storybook princess, than the rest of the heroines in The Tales of Beedle the Bard. Her main strength was probably her perception: she was able to sense the coldness that lay behind the warmth of the Warlock's flattery, where others failed to see it. She was also described as a prodigiously skilled, very wealthy witch.[1]
Magical abilities and skills
Magical Mastery: The maiden was described as a witch of prodigious skill, meaning she was a very powerful and talented witch who was highly proficient in many different fields and branches of magic.[1]
Magical Empathy: The maiden appears to have some version of magical empathy, as she is able to sense the true feelings and emotions of one, as she did with the warlock, possibly Legilimency.[1]
Appearances
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 1.11 1.12 1.13 1.14 1.15 1.16 The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "The Warlock's Hairy Heart"
↑ The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "The Warlock's Hairy Heart" stated that the wizard wanted to find a wife of magical heritage to make sure that their children would be magical too, implying she was not of Muggle heritage.
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
By Beedle the Bard
Stories
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump · The Fountain of Fair Fortune · The Warlock's Hairy Heart · The Tale of the Three Brothers · The Wizard and the Hopping Pot
Characters
Altheda · Amata · Amata's lover · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's enemy · Antioch Peverell's killer · Asha · Babbitty · Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Cadmus Peverell · Cadmus Peverell's fiancée · Captain of the Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Charlatan · Death · Evil Sorcerer · Gigantic white worm · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · King · Kinsfolk · Maiden · Old man · Old man's donkey · Old man's family · Peasant woman · Peasant woman's granddaughter · Sabre · Sir Luckless · Warlock · Warlock's family · The Warlock's friends · Wizard · Wizard's father · Young woman · Young woman's child
Objects
Altheda's potion · Altheda's wand · Cloak of Invisibility · Creepers · Crystal casket · Elder Wand · Enchanted garden · Fountain · Gold statue of Babbitty · Hairy Heart · The Hopping Pot · Never-ending hill · Poisonous toadstool · Poultice for warts · Resurrection Stone · Silver chalice