"Point me!"
This article is about Dudley Dursley's friend. You may be looking for another person with the same name.
Malcolm
Biographical information
Born
c. 1980s
Blood status
Muggle
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Affiliation
Loyalty
Dudley Dursley's gang[1]
[Source]
"squealed like a pig, didn’t he?"
— The gang's bullying behaviour[src]
Malcolm was a Muggle who was a friend of Dudley Dursley and became a member of Dudley Dursley's gang.[1] It is unknown if he learned that Dudley Dursley had started to show a little kindness to Harry or if he went into hiding when the Death Eaters attacked.
Contents
1 Etymology
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Etymology
The name "Malcolm" comes from Scottish Máel Coluim which means "disciple of Saint Columba". This was the name of four kings of Scotland starting in the 10th century, including Malcolm III, who became king after killing Macbeth, the usurper who had murdered his father. The character Malcolm in Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth (1606) is based on him.
Behind the scenes
Malcolm as seen in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Malcolm was potrayed by Richard Macklin in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
In the consoles versions of LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 he is called as "Dudley's Gang Member" and the only gang member to be playable. However Gordon and Dennis are playable in the 3DS versions of the game.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Heard)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 1 (Dudley Demented)
Dudley Dursley's gang
Leader
Dudley Dursley
Members
Piers Polkiss · Dennis · Dudley Dursley · Gordon · Malcolm
This article about a specific character is a stub. You can help by expanding it.