Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
Nagini, a Maledictus
A Maledictus (plural Maledictuses)[1] was a female individual who carried a blood curse that eventually turned her into a beast permanently.[2] The curse was carried from birth and passed down from mother to daughter.[1] A werewolf was not considered a Maledictus.[1]
Contents
1 Difference from Animagi
2 Nature
3 Known Maledictuses
4 Etymology
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Notes and references
Difference from Animagi
Maledictuses also were very different from Animagi,[3] Unlike Animagi, they lost the ability to think like a human over time.[4]
A Maledictus' form was also not limited by the lifespan of the animal they transformed into, similar to Animagi.[5]
Nature
They were not in any way destined to become evil.[6] The beast that a Maledictus transformed into varied based on the curse.[7] Before their permanent transformation, they had the ability to change shape at will, which became gradually uncontrollable.
Maledictuses also had the ability to communicate with normal animals.
Known Maledictuses
Nagini - Snake[8]
Etymology
Maledictus is a Latin word meaning "accursed [one]", from maledicere ("to speak ill of, slander, curse"). This is a masculine word; as all Maledictuses are female, it should logically be the female form, Maledicta.[9]
Behind the scenes
Nagini's human form was the first time a Maledictus was mentioned in the wizarding world franchise, though blood-related curses were mentioned before with the case of Astoria Malfoy.
It's unknown if a Muggle can carry the Maledictus curse. As yet we do not know if Nagini is magical or not, as it has not been revealed, and it is possible that Muggle women, as well as witches, may be afflicted.
Nagini is stated to not have a wand, however according to the script she did manage to use Parseltongue to cast a spell when transformed. It has also been stated in interviews that she has magic "unlike that of wizards" suggesting that she may be a non-magical human able to use limited magic due to the curse she is under.
Appearances
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay (First appearance)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 J K Rowling on Twitter: "They're different conditions. Maledictuses are always women, whereas werewolves can be either sex. The Maledictus carries a blood curse from birth, which is passed down from mother to daughter."
↑ Everything you need to know about Nagini at Pottermore
↑ J K Rowling on Twitter: "@El_Minichips: NAGINI ! Animagi ? (...) really ? OMG @jk_rowling: Not an Animagus. A Maledictus. Big difference."
↑ Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - Blueray Special Features: Credence, Nagini and the Circus Arcanus
↑ Nagini lived to be at least 71 years old, longer than a snake's normal life expectancy.
↑ J K Rowling on Twitter: "@nikla_1: So a Maledictus is pre-destined to be evil? They were born that way, kind of speak. @jk_rowling: Not at all. The slow transformation into a beast is beyond their control, but they aren't destined to be evil."
↑ J K Rowling on Twitter: "@gabifcr: Is always a snake? @jk_rowling: No, they can be other creatures. Depends on the curse."
↑ Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay
↑ maledictus on Wiktionary