"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Manager of Gambol and Japes
Biographical information
Born
Before 1974
Nationality
British[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Hair colour
White[1]
Eye colour
Brown[1]
Skin colour
Light[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Manager of Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop[1]
Loyalty
Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop[1]
[Source]
Harry Potter: "How much are Stink Pellets?"
Manager: "Four Sickles for a pack of ten."
— Harry Potter inquiring about the price of Stink Pellets in 1992[src]
The individual was a British wizard who worked as the manager of Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop, in Diagon Alley London.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Physical appearance
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Biography
The wizard managing his shop
He was working as the manager of Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop in Diagon Alley sometime before August 1992. When Harry Potter entered his shop that year whilst shopping in Diagon Alley, he brought some packets of Stink Pellets from him for four galleons each, along with some additional Non-explodable, luminous balloons.[1]
Physical appearance
He heavy-set man with a white beard and moustache. He wore a red and purple vest, a hat of the same colours and a yellow bow tie.[1]
Behind the scenes
If the shop was named after two people and he was the owner, his name might have been Gambol, or Japes. If the former is the case, he might have been related to former Minister for Magic Ottaline Gambol.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game)
London's Wizarding Quarter
England, Great Britain
Carkitt Market - Diagon Alley - Horizont Alley - Knockturn Alley
Diagon Alley
Shops
2nd Hand Brooms · Amanuensis Quills · Broomstix · Broom Brakes Service · Broom Shop · Cauldron Workshop · Cranville Quincey's Magical Junkshop · Fine Enchanting Cauldrons · Floo-Pow · Florist's stall · Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop · J. Pippin's Potions · Jimmy Kiddell's Wonderful Wands · The Junk Shop · Madam Primpernelle's Beautifying Potions · Mr Mulpepper's Apothecary · Obscurus Books · Ollivanders · Rosa Lee Teabag · Scribbulus Writing Implements · Second-Hand Bookshop · Second-Hand Robes · Slug & Jiggers Apothecary · Sugarplum's Sweets Shop · Surgical and Dental Operator · Twilfitt and Tattings · Wand Showroom · Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes · Whizz Hard Books
Other services
Brews and Stews · Daily Prophet's main office · Diagon Alley stalls · GalloLoans · Gringotts Wizarding Bank · The Ministry Press · Peter Boat · TerrorTours
Locations
1 Diagon Alley · 18a Diagon Alley · 129b Diagon Alley · 275 Diagon Alley · 343 Diagon Alley South · 59 Diagon Alley · 92 Diagon Alley · 93 Diagon Alley · 94 Diagon Alley
Known residents and shop employees
Archibald Bennett · Broom Shop shopkeeper · Clutterbuck Crispe · Cranville Quincey · Daily Prophet personnel · Edwin Avarus · Fred Weasley (deceased) · Garrick Ollivander · George Weasley · Healer · Jimmy Kiddell · J. Pippin · Madam Primpernelle · Manager of Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop · Mulpepper · Podric Batworthy · Ronald Weasley · Shimmy Hardoteer · Sugarplum · Unidentified florist in Diagon Alley · Verity · Villanelle