"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Manager of Flourish and Blotts
Biographical information
Nationality
British
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Hair colour
Brown
Skin colour
White
Affiliation
Occupation
Flourish and Blotts manager
Loyalty
Flourish and Blotts
[Source]
"I'm never stocking them again, never!"
— The manager regarding the aggressiveness of The Monster Book of Monsters[src]
The manager of Flourish and Blotts was a much-tired British wizard who took the brunt of teachers' selection of required textbooks for their classes that turned out to be somewhat exotic.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 1992
1.2 1993
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
1992
The manager in 1992
"Gentleman, please-please!"
— The manager trying to stop Lucius Malfoy and Arthur Weasley fighting[src]
In 1992, he was first seen by Harry Potter on camera at Flourish and Blotts as he was trying to keep Gilderoy Lockhart's book signing under control.[1]
1993
"Stop it! Stop it!"
— The manager trying to stop copies of the The Monster Book of Monsters from attacking each other[src]
In 1993, he told Harry that he had once lost a lot of money on The Invisible Book of Invisibility, because they never found the books. When the The Monster Book of Monsters became one books required by students at Hogwarts, he had to cope with the new additions to his book list attacking both each other and him; the manager spent much of that summer vowing never to stock that book again. Whenever he had to grab a copy for a customer, he would become rather unhappy due to the books' viciousness; while he was relieved that Harry already got a copy beforehand, he was on the verge of tears when Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger requested two copies total. He also recommend Harry to not buy Death Omens: What to Do When You Know the Worst is Coming, as it was enough to frighten anyone to death, and in general doesn't recommend reading books about death omens because one would start seeing them everywhere.[2]
Behind the scenes
As the owner of Flourish and Blotts, it is possible that his name is either Flourish or Blotts. However, knowing that his shop was established in 15th century, he might not be an indirect descendant of the founder.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (GBC version)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (PS2 version)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Notes and references
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 4 (At Flourish and Blotts)
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Chapter 4 (The Leaky Cauldron)
Diagon Alley North Side
Locations
Apothecary · Bats! Bats! Bats! · Belcher's Bottled Beers · Bernie Balls Fireworks · Blinkhorn's workshop · Boogermongers · Brigg's Brooms · Bufo's · Caput Mortuum · Creepy Scrawlers Stationers · Crispa Culpepper's Drugs & Preparations · Eeylops Owl Emporium · Flail & Hyde Furriers · Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlour · Flourish and Blotts · Gaberlunzie Garments · Grandma Gramercy's Grandiloquent Gramophones · Gringotts Wizarding Bank · The Harpy's Bazaar · Herbert's Sherbets · Janus Galloglass · Krakens · Leaky Cauldron (1 Diagon Alley) · Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions · The Magic Lantern · Magical Menagerie · Mandrake Mufflers · Marcus Minucius Myomancer · Mourning & Starr Armourers · Mr Milvus Grizedale, Kitemaker · Mr Trismus, Mouth Magician · Mulligrubs Materia Medica · Nell's Bells · Nollikins for Scrolls & Skins · Noltie's Botanical Novelties · Oldknowe Books · Pettichaps · Potage's Cauldron Shop · Praedico Predico · Quality Quidditch Supplies · Shrew & Scold's Bridal Wear · S. Starling · Tangle & Noils Wigmakers & Perruquiers · The Three Sheets · Tut's Nuts · Twinkle's Telescopes · Vietch's Leeches · What Larks! Songbird Specialists · Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment
Known residents, shop owners and employees
Blinkhorn · Crookshanks (formerly) · Eeylops Owl Emporium female employee · Eeylops Owl Emporium male employee · Florean Fortescue (deceased) · Flourish and Blotts manager · Hedwig (formerly; deceased) · Madam Malkin · Madam Potage · Magical Menagerie salesman · Magical Menagerie saleswoman · Marcus Minucius · Tut · Twinkle · Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment employee