Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
"Point me!"
This article is about the Slytherin student. You may be looking for the former Minister for Magic, Millicent Bagnold.
Millicent Bulstrode
Biographical information
Born
between 1 September 1979 and 31 August 1980
Blood status
Half-blood[1]
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Physical information
Species
Human[3]
Gender
Female[3]
Hair colour
Black[4]
Relationship information
Family members
Violetta Bulstrode (possible relative)
Bulstrode family
Magical characteristics
Boggart
Lord Voldemort[5]
Wand
Unknown length, wood and core[6]
Affiliation
House
Slytherin[3]
Loyalty
Bulstrode family[7]
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry[3]
Slytherin[3]
Inquisitorial Squad[8]
[Source]
"Hermione and Millicent Bulstrode were still moving; Millicent had Hermione in a headlock and Hermione was whimpering in pain; both their wands lay forgotten on the floor. Harry leapt forward and pulled Millicent off. It was difficult: She was a lot bigger than he was."
— Millicent engaged in a practice duel with Hermione Granger[src]
Millicent Bulstrode (b. 1979/1980) was a half-blood[1] witch. She began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was sorted into Slytherin House in 1991.[3] In her fifth year, Millicent became a member of the short-lived Inquisitorial Squad led by Dolores Umbridge.[8]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Hogwarts years
1.2.1 First year
1.2.2 Second year
1.2.3 Third and fourth years
1.2.4 Fifth year
1.2.5 Sixth year
1.2.6 Seventh year
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Possessions
5 Etymology
6 Behind the scenes
7 Appearances
8 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Millicent Bulstrode was born sometime between 1 September 1979 and 31 August 1980 into the pure-blooded, Sacred Twenty-Eight Bulstrode family, though was herself a half-blood.[7][1] She may have been related to Violetta Black (née Bulstrode) wife of Cygnus Black II, and therefore related to the Lestrange, Malfoy, and Tonks families.
Hogwarts years
First year
"“Bulstrode, Millicent” then became a Slytherin. Perhaps it was Harry’s imagination, after all he’d heard about Slytherin, but he thought they looked like an unpleasant lot."
— Harry Potter's negative perception of Millicent and her fellow Slytherins[src]
Millicent and her classmates during their Sorting
Millicent started her education at Hogwarts in 1991. Prior to the school year, she likely purchased her equipment from Diagon Alley, and brought her cat with her on the Hogwarts Express. During the Welcoming Feast, Millicent was sorted into the house of Slytherin whose head at the time was Severus Snape.[3] She would share a dormitory with the other Slytherin girls, Pansy Parkinson, Tracey Davis, Daphne Greengrass, and another girl.
Second year
"Remember Millicent Bulstrode wrestling with me at the Duelling Club? She left this on my robes when she was trying to strangle me! And she’s gone home for Christmas — so I’ll just have to tell the Slytherins I’ve decided to come back.."
— Hermione Granger on whose form she will take under Polyjuice Potion[src]
In 1992 Hogwarts became under threat from the re-opened Chamber of Secrets and the basilisk it contained inside. As a precaution, students were taught how to duel. Millicent and Hermione Granger were paired together during the short-lived Duelling Club. Their duel spiralled into a physical brawl, with Millicent holding Hermione in a headlock, in spite of the standard "no contact" rule in duelling. Hermione's friend, Harry Potter, came to her rescue, breaking the two girls up.[6]
Millicent during a second year Transfiguration class
Hermione later used hair from this incident to try to assume Millicent's form with Polyjuice Potion, as the real Millicent went home for Christmas. However, the hair she obtained turned out to be that of Millicent's cat and partly transformed Hermione into a cat. This resulted in her spending some time in the Hospital Wing as polyjuice potion wasn't intended to be used for cross-species transformations.[9]
Third and fourth years
Little is known about Millicent during her third and fourth years.
Fifth year
"The Inquisitorial Squad, Granger. A select group of students who are supportive of the Ministry of Magic, hand-picked by Professor Umbridge. Anyway, members of the Inquisitorial Squad do have the power to dock points [...] "
— Draco Malfoy regarding the Inquisitorial Squad members and their powers[src]
The Inquisitorial Squad, to which Millicent belonged
In 1996, Millicent was one of the students of the Slytherin-dominated Inquisitorial Squad an organisation started by then-headmistress Dolores Umbridge to silence all opposition to Ministry of Magic activities at Hogwarts. She was one of the students who caught Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Ron Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Ginny Weasley, and Luna Lovegood, who were attempting to use the Floo Network in Umbridge's office to find out if Sirius Black had been attacked in the Department of Mysteries. Particularly, she helped in holding down Hermione.[8] However, given how the four remaining DA members managed to overpower the Inquisitorial Squad and incapacitated them with various Stunning Spells, Disarming Charms and a powerful Impediment Jinx cast by Neville Longbottom,[10] Millicent was most likely herself assaulted and injured with their offensive spells, as the other Squad members were quite badly.
Sixth year
In Millicent's sixth year she had lost her former power of being in the Inquisitorial Squad and could no longer use it to her advantage. Her fellow Slytherin Draco Malfoy had joined the Death Eaters, which put a strain on his friendships with other Slytherins, possibly including Millicent. Severus Snape, her head of house, had now taken on the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher and favoured Slytherins during his lessons. Later on in this year, headmaster Albus Dumbledore was killed.
Seventh year
Slytherins in the Great Hall urging the students to hand Harry Potter over to Voldemort
Due to her half blood status and Slytherin relations, Millicent likely was allowed to return to Hogwarts in 1997 when it was under the control of Lord Voldemort, with her former head of house Severus Snape acting as headmaster. If she did, Millicent would have been present for the evacuation of Hogwarts preceding the Battle of Hogwarts, and it would be assumed that Millicent left the castle along with the other members of the House of Slytherin, rather than choosing to fight Voldemort's army.[11] It could also be a possibility that Millicent would return to Hogwarts, fighting against the school alongside Death Eaters, as did some other students of Slytherin.
Physical appearance
Millicent was black-haired and had a heavy, jutting jaw. She had a large, square build that allowed her to physically intimidate smaller people, and was bigger than Harry Potter in their second year. Ron Weasley once remarked that Millicent was "ugly," and Harry thought that she looked like a hag he had seen pictured in Holidays with Hags.[6] She was also described by Harry as being "no pixie."[9]
Personality and traits
"And Hermione began to cry weakly into the back of Millicent Bulstrode’s robes. Millicent stopped trying to squash her against the wall immediately and dodged out of her way looking disgusted."
— Millicent's hostile personality[src]
Given her interactions with others and her membership of the Inquisitorial Squad in her fifth year, Millicent appeared to be a rather mean-spirited and aggressive witch who enjoyed bullying other Hogwarts students, mainly by using her large figure to intimidate and even in some cases assault them, as shown when she physically restrained the smaller Hermione Granger in both 1992 and 1996.[6][8] She also would have used her authority in Umbridge's short-lived Inquisitorial Squad to bully and harass other students, and was therefore probably supportive of Umbridge's reign of cruelty and authoritarianism over Hogwarts.[8]
Possessions
Cat: Millicent owned a pet cat, which was of black hair, an acceptable animal to keep as a pet at Hogwarts. Hermione Granger unknowingly extracted some of her cat's hair in 1992 during the Duelling Club, which she mixed in her glass of Polyjuice Potion, believing the hair to be Human hair.[9]
Wand: As a Hogwarts student, Millicent owned a wand, which was of an unknown length, wand wood and wand core, which she presumably purchased sometime before starting her first year in 1991.[6][5]
Etymology
The name Millicent is Germanic, meaning "she with the gentle gait". This is ironic, considering that Millicent Bulstrode is not portrayed as gentle or graceful in the least; Harry Potter once remarked that she's "no pixie" while they were taking Polyjuice Potion, in relation to the fact that Millicent, Crabbe and Goyle would not fit into a single toilet cubicle.
Millicent may also come from the Latin words mille, meaning "thousand", and centum, meaning "hundred". It also sounds similar to the word "militant", which matches her aggressive personality.
Behind the scenes
Millicent Bulstrode in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
She was portrayed by Helen Stuart in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets; however, her appearance was practically unnoticeable to the point that the only true confirmation of her appearance in the film is the credit of her actress.
Because her role appears to be such an obscure cameo that even the most sharp-eyed of fans would have trouble picking up on, it is also possible that her actual role was cut and that the presumed cameo of Millicent is simply that of an unnamed student.
In the books, Millicent's hair is black. In the Chamber of Secrets film, Millicent is portrayed by a brunette actress.
Millicent may be related in some way to the House of Black, as there is a mention of a Violetta Bulstrode in that family tree.[12]
In the video game adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, there is a Slytherin girl, strongly hinted to be Millicent, who says her own distinct lines, such as finding Professor Snape more attractive than Professor Lockhart. She is also mentioned by other female students as being "a real witch", and she leaves Harry many a snarky remark.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 10 images related to Millicent Bulstrode.
Millicent Bulstrode as depicted in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Mentioned only) (Possible appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Quidditch Through the Ages (Mentioned only)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 Harry Potter and Me
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 7 (The Sorting Hat)
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 12 (The Polyjuice Potion) - The cat hair Hermione plucked off Millicent's robes for her Polyjuice Potion was black. If Millicent's hair had been another colour, Hermione would not have made this mistake.
↑
5.0 5.1 LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
↑
6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 11 (The Duelling Club)
↑
7.0 7.1 Writing by J.K. Rowling: "Pure-Blood" at Wizarding World
↑
8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.4 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 32 (Out of the Fire)
↑
9.0 9.1 9.2 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 12 (The Polyjuice Potion)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 33 (Fight and Flight)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 31 (The Battle of Hogwarts)
↑ Black family tree
Hogwarts Duelling Club
Duelling Club Captains
Hogwarts: Gilderoy Lockhart · Severus Snape
Gryffindor: Angus Matlock
Hufflepuff: Duelling Club Captain
Ravenclaw: Alannis
Slytherin: Duelling Club Captain
Duelling Club Members
Gryffindor: Edward · Emily · Harry Potter · Hermione Granger · Neil Randall · Neville Longbottom · Romilda Vane · Ronald Weasley · Seamus Finnigan · Stewart<
Hufflepuff: Anthony Otterburn · Heather · Justin Finch-Fletchley · Karl Limpley · Kouta Ohnishi · Rhonda Fladbury
Ravenclaw: Andrew · Helen Dawlish · Fawcett · Rebecca · Shoma Ichikawa · Terry Boot · Trevor Birch
Slytherin: Bridget · Draco Malfoy · Fergus Cowley · Irfan Mustaq · Maynard Hatton · Millicent Bulstrode · Peter · Rachel · Roy
Badges
Crossfire Badge · Defender Badge · Duelling Beginner's Luck Badge · Duelling Club Champion Badge · Duelling Veteran Badge · Keen Duellist Badge · Master Duellist Badge · Nine Lives Badge · Persistence Badge · Reflex Badge
Duelling Club locations
Great Hall · Middle Courtyard · The Quad · Training Grounds