"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Ministry of Magic lift attendant
Biographical information
Born
1978 or earlier[1]
Nationality
British
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Skin colour
Pale
Affiliation
Occupation
Lift attendant
Loyalty
British Ministry of Magic
Magical Maintenance Department
[Source]
This individual (fl. 1995) was a wizard who worked for Magical Maintenance at the Ministry of Magic in the capacity of lift attendant in the mid-1990s.
Biography
He was noticeably bored during the course of his job on the morning of 12 August, on which day he was operating the lift that carried Harry Potter and Arthur Weasley down into Level 9 and Courtroom Ten.[2]
By 1997, during Lord Voldemort's puppet regime, there were no attendants operating the lifts, so it is possible this individual either quit his job or was sacked for his blood status.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (First appearance)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Harry Potter: The Character Vault
Notes and references
↑ He had to be at least seventeen to be of age and to apply for a job at the Ministry.
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) - Chapter 5 (The Ministry of Magic)
Ministry of Magic Departments
Unknown Levels
Archives · Committee on Experimental Charms · Department of Magical Artefacts · Department of Magical Education · Exploding Bonbons Disposal Unit · Magical Maintenance Department · Office for the Removal of Curses, Jinxes, and Hexes · Public Information Services · Remittance Office · Research Committee · Very Important Members of Section M.I. Trx. · Wizarding Examinations Authority
Committee on Experimental Charms Personnel
Balfour Blane · Gilbert Wimple
Department of Magical Artefacts Personnel
Sage Bragnam (Head Curator)
Magical Maintenance Department Personnel
Reginald Cattermole · Orford Umbridge · Lift attendant · Man
Research Committee Personnel
Phoebus Penrose (Head)
Wizarding Examinations Authority Personnel
Griselda Marchbanks · Professor Tofty · Unidentified plump little witch examiner · Unidentified examiner with a wart on his nose