Mnemone Radford
Biographical information
Born
1562[1]
Died
1649 (aged 86–87)[1]
Nationality
British[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Female[1]
Hair colour
White[1]
Eye colour
Blue[1]
Skin colour
Light[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Obliviator[1]
Spell inventor[1]
Loyalty
British Ministry of Magic[1]
[Source]
Mnemone Radford (1562–1649) was a British witch, who first developed Memory Modifying Charms. She became the first British Ministry of Magic Obliviator, due to her skill and expertise with casting the charm.[1]
Contents
1 Magical abilities and skills
2 Behind the scenes
3 Etymology
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Magical abilities and skills
Spell creation: Radford had succeeded in the incredibly difficult and complex magical art of inventing new spells, as she successfully invented Memory-Modifying Charms, which were particularly useful and practical charms.[1]
Charms: Radford was highly accomplished with charm-work, given how she successfully invented Memory-Modifying Charms and was also skilled with the casting of them, given how she was the first Obliviator who worked for the British Ministry of Magic.[1]
Behind the scenes
The text on Mnemone Radford's Wizard of the Month entry credits her with the invention of "Memory Modifying Charms". It is therefore possible that she invented both the Memory Charm and the spell that creates false memories, although the specifics of which exact spells she invented have never been confirmed outright.
There are a few issues with this character's chronology. Many years after her first canonical mention in J. K. Rowling's official site, Pottermore went on to reveal that the Ministry of Magic was only formally established in 1707, which is 58 years after Mnemone Radford died, so it is uncertain exactly how she could have worked for the Ministry. Even if one considers that the phrase "Ministry of Magic" used on Wizard of the Month is an over-simplification and refers to its predecessor, the Wizards' Council, it is still left unexplained what exactly would an Obliviator do the days before the establishment of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy in 1692.
Etymology
Mnemone Radford is described as inventing the Memory Modifying Charm. Mnemosyne was an ancient Greek goddess of memory. Her daughter, Mneme was the muse of memory.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 2 images related to Mnemone Radford.
J. K. Rowling's official site (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 1.11 1.12 1.13 J. K. Rowling's official site
Charms (class)
Charm-book writers and developers
Blagdon Blay · Daisy Pennifold · Delfina Crimp · Miranda Goshawk · Jarleth Hobart · Basil Horton · Helixa Hyslop · Syna Hyslop · Randolph Keitch · Levina Monkstanley · Orabella Nuttley · Mnemone Radford · Scarpin · Elliot Smethwyck · Felix Summerbee · Violeta Stitch
Professors Fortinbras · Filius Flitwick · Unidentified male Charms Professor
Textbooks Achievements in Charming · Extreme Incantations · Quintessence: A Quest · The Standard Book of Spells
Charms studied at Hogwarts
Anti-Alohomora Charm · Ascendio · Banishing Charm (Depulso) · Blackboard Writing Spell · Blue sparks · Box Blasting Charm (Cistem Aperio) · Bubble-Head Charm · Cheering Charm · Cleaning Charm · Colour Change Charm (Colovaria) · Confundus Charm (Confundo) · Counter-charm for hiccoughs · Dancing Feet Spell (Tarantallegra) · Descendo · Disarming Charm (Expelliarmus) · Disillusionment Charm · Drought Charm · Entrancing Enchantments (Theortically) · Eradication Spell (Deletrius) · Engorgement Charm (Engorgio) · Extinguishing Spell · Exploding Charm (Bombarda) · Fire-Making Spell (Incendio) · Freezing Charm (Immobulus) · Freezing Spell (Glacius) · Full Body-Bind Curse (Petrificus Totalus) · General Counter-Spell (Finite Incantatem) · Gouging Spell (Defodio) · Growth Charm · Ice Jinx · Knitting Charm · Knockback Jinx (Flipendo) · Leg-Locker Curse (Locomotor Mortis) · Levitation Charm (Wingardium Leviosa) · Locking Spell (Colloportus) · Locomotion Charm (Locomotor) · Mending Charm (Reparo) · Memory Charm (Obliviate) · Muffliato Charm (Muffliato) · Nonverbal spells · Pack Charm (Pack) · Red Sparks (Vermillious) · Reductor Curse (Reducto) · Scouring Charm (Scourgify) · Seize and pull charm (Carpe Retractum) · Severing Charm (Diffindo) · Shrinking Charm (Reducio) · Silencing Charm (Silencio) · Slowing Charm (Arresto Momentum) · Skurge Scouring Charm (Skurge) · Softening Charm (Spongify) · Spell for growing legs · Substantive Charm · Summoning Charm (Accio) · Tickling Charm (Rictusempra) · Unlocking Charm (Alohomora) · Vinegar into Wine · Wand-Extinguishing Charm (Nox) · Wand-Lighting Charm (Lumos) · Lumos Maxima · Water-Making Spell (Aguamenti)
Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes employees
Senior Personnel
Cornelius Fudge (Junior Minister - 1980s)
Other Personnel
Arnold Peasegood · Mnemone Radford · Dudley · Leonard Spencer-Moon · Two unidentified agents · Unidentified Obliviator (I) · Unidentified Obliviator (II) · Unidentified Muggle-Worthy Excuse Committee clerk