"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Mrs Prewett
Biographical information
Born
Before 30 October, 1949[1]
Blood status
Pure-blood
Marital status
Married
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Hair colour
Red (possibly)[2]
Relationship information
Family members
Mr Prewett (husband)
Bilius (possible son) †
Tessie (sister or sister-in-law)
Muriel (possible aunt)
Molly Weasley (daughter)
Gideon Prewett (son) †
Fabian Prewett (son) †
Ignatius Prewett (brother-in-law)[3]
Arthur Weasley (son-in-law)
Seven grandchildren
Twelve great-grandchildren
Affiliation
Loyalty
Prewett family
[Source]
Mrs Prewett was a pure-blood witch, the wife of Mr Prewett, and the mother of Gideon, Fabian, and Molly Prewett (later Weasley). She was the maternal grandmother of the Weasley children and great grandmother of Albus, James and Lily Potter, Victoire, Dominique, Louis, Molly, Lucy, Roxanne, and Fred Weasley, as well as Rose and Hugo Granger-Weasley. She was also the mother-in-law of Arthur Weasley. She could also be the niece of Muriel.
She may or may not have had a big nose.[4]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Indirectly mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑ Molly was born on this date, so her mother must have been alive to have had her.
↑ Molly's Ministry file — seen here — states that red hair is a family trait for HER family, so she inherited it from one (or both) of her parents, meaning that Mrs Prewett may have had red hair.
↑ Sirius Black stated in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 6 (The Noble and Most Ancient House of Black) that Molly Weasley was his "cousin by marriage". This means that Ignatius could not have been Molly, Fabian, and Gideon's father, as this would have made them first cousins by blood of Sirius. Ignatius was Sirius's uncle by marriage, and if Molly was his niece, this could explain Sirius's comment. See this talk page for more information.
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (script): Fred states that George's nose looks "positively massive" and is corrected that it is his - he says it is a family trait from Molly, implying that one of Molly's parents had a big nose too, though it is unknown as to which parents did.

This article about a specific character is a stub. You can help by expanding it.