Moribund
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Owner of Moribund's[1]
Loyalty
Moribund's[1]
[Source]
Moribund was the shopkeeper of Moribund's, in Knockturn Alley. The shop is the neighbouring shop of The Spiny Serpent and is opposite Borgin and Burkes. The shop's door is kept locked at all times, despite the shop being open. This allows Moribund to have a select customer market. As the forebear of shopkeeper Garrick Ollivander did in the case of Ollivanders, Moribund chose to give his establishment the family name. The shop is lit by candle light and has a rather messy exterior.[1]
Etymology
'Moribund' is of Latin origin, mori - to die and bundus being a suffix. Moribund is also an adjective having three defintions: 1.in a dying state; near death, 2. on the verge of extinction or termination, 3. not progressing or advancing; stagnant. In its modern usage, it often suggests an apathy and listlessness which preclude much hope of improvement.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game)
London's Wizarding Quarter
England, Great Britain
Carkitt Market - Diagon Alley - Horizont Alley - Knockturn Alley
Knockturn Alley
Shops
13B Knockturn Alley · Beard Trimming · Betting shop · Borgin and Burkes · Chimney Sweep Elf · Cobb & Webb's · E.L.M and Wizards Undertakers & Embalmers · The Coffin House · Dystyl Phaelanges · Markus Scarrs Indelible Tattoos · Moribund's · McHavelock's Wizarding Headgear · Mr. Mulpepper's Apothecary · Noggin and Bonce · Potage's Cauldron Shop · The Spiny Serpent · The Starry Prophesier · Wizarding Supplies · Ye Olde Curiosity Shop · Msaw Ætare · The White Wyvern · Trackleshanks Locksmith
Known residents and shop employees
Mr Borgin · Caractacus Burke · Cobb & Webb's shopkeeper · Madam Potage · McHavelock · Moribund · Mr Mulpepper · Podric Batworthy · Tom Marvolo Riddle (formerly) · Ye Olde Curiosity Shop shopkeeper