Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Penny Haywood
Biographical information
Born
Between 1 September 1972 and 31 August 1973
London, England,[1] Great Britain
Blood status
Half-blood
Nationality
English
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Hair colour
Blonde
Eye colour
Blue
Skin colour
Light
Relationship information
Family members
Mr Haywood (father)
Mrs Haywood (mother)
Beatrice Haywood (sister)[1]
Magical characteristics
Boggart
Werewolf[2]
Wand
Unicorn hair core, unknown length and wood[1]
Patronus
None[3]
Affiliation
House
Hufflepuff
Loyalty
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Hufflepuff
Hippogriff Club[4]
Wigtown Wanderers[5]
Parkin family[5]
Circle of Khanna[6]
[Source]
Penny Haywood (born c. 1973) was an English half-blood[1] witch who began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1984. She was sorted into Hufflepuff house and was noted as being the most popular girl in her year.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Hogwarts years (1984–1991)
1.2.1 First year
1.2.2 Second year
1.2.3 Third year
1.2.4 Fourth year
1.2.5 Fifth year
1.2.6 Sixth year
1.2.7 Seventh year
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Possessions
6 Etymology
7 Behind the scenes
8 Appearances
9 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Penny was born in London, United Kingdom in 1972 or 1973, to a Muggle father[7] and a Muggle-born witch mother.[8] She had a younger sister named Beatrice,[1] born four years after her.[9]
Penny's family spent every summer in the countryside, where she also had a Muggle friend called Scarlett.[1]
At some point in her childhood, her family lived in Wigtown, which lead to Penny becoming a lover of the Quidditch team Wigtown Wanderers. She owned posters of the team before she started attending Hogwarts. Her favourite player was Ethan Parkin.
Her family also owned a garden with red roses, which she tried to change to yellow.[5]
Hogwarts years (1984–1991)
First year
In 1984, she began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was sorted into Hufflepuff. She became popular during her first year at school.
She was known for her impressive academic performance in Potions and her talent in Potion-making.[10] She later befriended Jacob's sibling and helped them create the Sleeping Draught they needed to break into the locked room, where they were looking for the Cursed Vaults.[11]
During the Hallowe'en Feast[12], she offered to help Jacob's sibling look for Dumbledore. If they accept, they would run into Fenrir Greyback and two other werewolves. Although obviously terrified, she refused to leave Jacob's sibling's side until they begged her to run. Jacob's sibling was saved by Dumbledore's arrival. Afterwards, with some convincing from Jacob's sibling, Penny agreed to brew a Wolfsbane Potion for Chiara Lobosca despite her intense fears, and eventually even became close friends with the fellow Hufflepuff, being the only student other than Jacob's sibling to whom Chiara revealed her secret of being a werewolf.
Second year
Penny would help Jacob's sibling many times in their search for the Cursed Vaults, including potentially joining them and Bill Weasley in breaking into one at the end of their second year.[13]
Penny met Jacob's sibling in the courtyard and helped coming up with the Artefact Room for a haunt of Erling during his stay in Hogwarts. When Erling went on a tour of the castle with the Fat Friar, they met Penny and Jacob's sibling in the Charms Classroom. After the ghosts left, Penny worried about how Erling and Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington planned to have their Deathday parties on the same night. Penny and Jacob's sibling met Nick at the Great Hall to work on the invitations, and discussed how being a ghost would be like. The pair went on to deliver the invitations, one of which was for Myrtle Warren.[14]
During the Teacher Appreciation Celebration Penny was tasked with getting to know Professor Snape and helped Jacob's sibling brainstorm ways for them to get to know Professor McGonagall better.[15]
Third year
Penny encountering a boggart in the Hogwarts greenhouses, in the shape of a werewolf
In the summer of 1985[16], a tragedy happened that would change Penny's life. Penny's family were spending their usual summer in the countryside. One night, at a full-moon, Penny and her friend Scarlett went exploring outside the house and found a werewolf.
Ignorant of what the beast was, Scarlett was fascinated by it and wanted to follow it to see where it might go. Penny had her wand ready, but when the werewolf finally saw them, she was at first unable to react, and when she finally did, it was too late already. The werewolf killed Scarlett, resulting in Penny blaming herself for the death of her friend.
From then on, Penny's boggart would change into a werewolf and she even went that far as to brew a Forgetfulness Potion in her third year, intending to clear her mind of the guilt and pain she felt over her lost friend.[1]
Penny helped Jacob's sibling train their crup puppy; she did not get one herself because she could not bring it home, as her father was a Muggle.[17]
During that year, she was especially excited to learn that Ethan Parkin was coming to visit Hogwarts to watch his daughter Skye play in the Inter-House Quidditch Cup final. She met him briefly when he came to the pre-match party to tell Skye and Jacob's sibling that the match was about to start. She got him to sign her copy of The Wonder of Wigtown Wanderers.
Fourth year
Penny helped to teach Jacob's sibling Beautification Potion to distract a Red Cap in the Forbidden Forest.
She was also attacked by a Dementor. Minerva McGonagall found her unconscious; Poppy Pomfrey speculates she may not have survived if not found just in time. At the Hospital Wing, she was visited by Nymphadora Tonks and Jacob's sibling. If the latter asked what she heard, she would reveal she heard a wolf's howl and a girl's scream from her worst memory: Scarlett's death. Jacob's sibling connected the attack with the plan "R" has to unleash "it" on Hogwarts.
Fifth year
Penny excitedly introduced Jacob's sibling to her younger sister, Beatrice Haywood, who has just started her first year, at the Start-of-Term Feast. Penny voiced her concern about young Beatrice being eager to join Jacob's sibling on their adventures, and distracted her by asking her to give them the toy Puffskein she made for them. The Haywoods then left to tour the Hufflepuff Common Room to let Jacob's sibling catch up with their other friends.[18]
The sisters' happiness together was short-lived, however. When Jacob's sibling was meeting with William Weasley and Merula Snyde to discuss the Cursed Vaults in the Three Broomsticks Inn, Penny burst in in a panic; Beatrice had gone missing. Penny feared she may have went into the Forbidden Forest because of the stories of curse-breaking she told her. The staff was already searching the castle, so the four of them searched the forest in pairs. Jacob's sibling could choose Penny to go with them to search Red Cap's hole, and the Acromantula lair, where she threatened to burn down the whole lair if the spiders harmed her sister.
Fruitless in their search, they returned to the castle; Bill and Jacob's sibling watched in concern as Penny attempted to invent a potion - which even seventh-year Bill found more complex than anything he knew - that would grant her powerful Legilimency to locate Beatrice wherever she was. However, to her disappointment, it did not work. Jacob's sibling promised her that they would not give up.[19]
Merula Snyde arrived saying she found Beatrice and led them to her - trapped in a painting in the Grand Staircase, leaving Penny devastated. Patricia Rakepick noted that Minerva McGonagall, Filius Flitwick and herself already tried every spell they knew to no effect, and that Beatrice's perception of reality was becoming increasingly distorted. In her last moments of full coherence, Beatrice asked Jacob's sibling to take care of Penny.
Penny spent part of History of Magic class brewing a potion at the back of the classroom, although the subject was considered so dull half the students decided to watch her and chat instead. She may ask Jacob's sibling to pass a note via paper plane to a fast-asleep Nymphadora Tonks. She revealed that her parents were so worried they considered sending her home, and that they were furious that Hogwarts were not doing more to save Beatrice.
Penny's life began to fall apart. Severus Snape, who considered her his best student, noted she was failing academically and had became resigned to being consumed by grief. Alarmed, Jacob's sibling resolved to help her stop becoming self-destructive. Even Merula Snyde reluctantly admitted to being concerned about her.
Jacob's sibling found her next to the portrait where Beatrice is trapped. Penny told them that Beatrice was scared, could not hear her and could only see her sometimes, and regretted letting her out of her sight and messing with the Cursed Vaults. Jacob's sibling reaffirmed their commitment to saving her, despite Penny expressing hopelessness. Penny was grateful for their support and asked them to meet her in the forest.
They found a unicorn horn as Penny believed it would be an ingredient in a potion she needed. They then found a pin cushion in the Transfiguration classroom; Jacob's sibling uses Reparifarge to transfigure it back to a porcupine so Penny could pluck its quills while they obtained Moonstone from Jae Kim as a favour, and the latter wondered why they are helping Penny. Despite only knowing him for a short time, if Jacob's sibling had a very close friendship with Penny, they may confess that they fancy Penny and that they had never told anyone. Jae advised them to tell her about their feelings.
In Herbology class, when they were preparing to gather Syrup of Hellebore, Penny asked Jacob's sibling why they were always so nice to her, prompting them to blurt out that they are attracted to her. Penny was shocked and speechless; she was too occupied with her sister's plight. Jacob's sibling understood and said it could wait until she was safe, and Penny promised they would talk after that. She also thanked them profusely for their help.
Penny revealed she planned on brewing a Draught of Peace to calm herself down. Jacob's sibling may choose to allow her to drink it, unwilling to see her in so much pain, or stop her, worried it may sicken her if brewed incorrectly. They may also refer to the incident with the Forgetfulness Potion in their third year.
Penny thought the Fat Friar might be of help, although he directed them to Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington instead for their search on Marauder's Map.
Penny was present in the meeting called to discuss the vault portrait. However, when the conversation descended into a chaotic argument, the normally sociable Penny was uncharacteristically the only person out of the group of eleven to remain completely silent throughout.[20] She was absent in a later meeting of Jacob's sibling's friends to catch up, where Rowan attacked the others under the control of the Imperius Curse.[21]
Penny asked Jacob's sibling to meet her at the Grand Staircase and informed them another student was pulled into a portrait, a Third-Year that they did not know, and that Beatrice could not hear her any more. She stressed the importance of breaking the curse and asked them what to do if she were to find the vault before they did.[22]
After more other students are trapped in paintings, Penny may tell Jacob's sibling that Beatrice is getting weaker. If Jacob's sibling used Legilimency on Penny, they would find that she was reliving the moment of her finding Beatrice trapped over and over.[23]
When the time came to enter the Cursed Vault, Jacob's sibling must choose either Charles Weasley or Penny Haywood to join the team. If Charlie was chosen, Merula would complain they should have asked Penny instead. If Penny was chosen, she must be convinced at Hog's Head Inn to join; she then went to see Beatrice one more time before going with the others. Jacob's sibling may express discontent with recruiting their friends who were less prepared for the dangers.[24]
Penny possibly joined Jacob's sibling and his friends into the Buried Vault.[25]
While Jacob's sibling was upset that their brother left them again, they were glad Penny and Beatrice were reunited. Penny asked them to meet up at the Courtyard. The sisters were very happy to be together again, and Penny said they spent much time outside after Beatrice was trapped for so long and thanked them. If Penny was at the vault, Jacob's sibling also praised her courage. They discussed Beatrice's ordeal, with Penny and Jacob's sibling reassuring her. Penny expressed her pain in being torn apart from her sister, before catching herself and apologising, remembering what happened with Jacob. When Beatrice expressed fear over a professor turning out to be evil and Penny tried to reassure her, Jacob's sibling was reminded of Merula, prompting them to leave to visit her.[26]
Penny attended the party at the Three Broomsticks Inn for Bill's graduation, and appeared concerned when Alastor Moody took Jacob's sibling away with Side-Along Apparition, although she, along with everyone else except Rowan and Rosmerta, had already left when Jacob's sibling returned.[27]
Penny was with Jacob's sibling when they found a crowd in the courtyard; Emily Tyler had stolen Ismelda Murk's diary and reading out loud all about her crush on Barnaby Lee and mocking her. Penny became upset at the scene and asked Jacob's sibling what they should do. Later, she would mention that she told Professor McGonagall about Emily's behaviour.
Jacob's sibling may ask Penny to help Ismelda confess to Barnaby. Penny gave Ismelda various advice, and finished with telling her to be herself, although she hastily added "minus the death threats" after Ismelda's response.
When Ismelda's confession did not go well on the oblivious Barnaby, she stormed off. Penny and Jacob's sibling found Ismelda and Jae Kim at the Grand Staircase, and realised she planned to use a love potion on Barnaby and Penny speculates whether she should brew an antidote.
Penny and Jacob's sibling confronted Ismelda and Penny pleaded her not to use it as Jae excused himself. However, she would not stop them if Jacob's sibling encouraged her to use the love potion; Penny would watch in shock as the scheme went wrong and Barnaby became infatuated with Jacob's sibling instead, and lead Barnaby away to get an antidote. If Jacob's sibling convinced Ismelda not to use the love potion, Penny would say she made the right choice, and leave to dispose of the love potion-infused sandwich.
In a Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Jae wondered if Penny would tell a professor about what he did. After class, Ismelda talked Jacob's sibling and accepted her rejection fairly evenly; if Penny helped Ismelda, Jacob's sibling would express gratitude for her help.[28]
Penny studied for her Ordinary Wizarding Levels this year. Due to Beatrice's situation, Penny found it very difficult to focus on her revision and considered buying cheating equipment from Jae Kim out of desperation. However, Jae had previously mentioned to Jacob's sibling that most cheaters are caught and disqualified, but he did not care; when Penny arrived to meet him, Jacob's sibling firmly told them to not make any transaction, and later helped Penny with her revision instead.
Sixth year
At the Start-of-Term Feast, Penny wondered where Beatrice was.[29]
Penny found Jacob's sibling and Merula blasting dummies after Merula swore revenge on Rakepick, and wondered why they are doing that in the dark. Merula lashed out at Penny for "judging" her and said she hated Penny and everyone. Penny was taken aback, but Jacob's sibling assured Penny that Merula was in a bad mood. Penny wanted to talk about Beatrice; she met with Jacob's sibling at the Three Broomsticks, clearly saddened. While hesitant, with some coaxing, she told Jacob's sibling that Beatrice spent the summer sulking, trying to act older than she was, and becoming distant from her. Beatrice had been avoiding Penny and hanging out with a new crowd. Jacob's sibling promised to talk to Beatrice.
They found Beatrice with Ismelda Murk at the courtyard. When Jacob's sibling approached, Beatrice immediately rolled her eyes and said that Penny has got to them. They argued, and Beatrice was not swayed and told them to let her be.
Jacob's sibling received a message that "Miss Haywood" needed them, incorrectly assuming it was Penny, but it was actually Beatrice who wanted them to witness the first victim of the Statue curse.[30]
Beatrice asked Jacob's sibling to meet them at the Artefact room, where she told them to tell Penny to back off, saying she did not want to talk to her. However, Penny found them and confronted Beatrice about skipping the classes she had to retake due to being trapped for much of her first year, leading to a heated argument. Jacob's sibling attempted to excuse themself, but was stopped by both sisters. They continued to bicker with Jacob's sibling trapped between the saddened and worried Penny and the angry and rebellious Beatrice. Despite Jacob's sibling asking them not to, they are forced to take a side. Regardless of their choice, they could not stop the argument from escalating until Beatrice yelled at Penny that she wished she was not her sister and that she would "disappear", before storming out of the room, leaving Penny and Jacob's sibling shocked. Realising that it reminded them of Jacob, Penny apologised and attempted to console them, but they were distracted by a missing skull which they deduced may be stolen by Ben.[31]
When Bill Weasley returned to help the Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Penny said it was great to see him again, but expressed reservations about Ben's new daredevil attitude. Penny was the first to voice support for his extra lessons, to help protect her sister and friends. During the lesson, she wondered how Bill had been since the last vault.[32]
When Jacob's sibling followed a trail to track down Jacob, Penny in the library commented she saw someone looking like him in there.[33]
Penny met Jacob's sibling at the courtyard, where she was eager to introduce them to Cedric Diggory, but she noticed they were upset. Jacob's sibling explained they saw Jacob but he left them again, and his warning that an assassin is after them, to Penny's sympathy and shock. Jacob's sibling changed the subject back; they met Cedric and Penny said he was "cool", talked about among Hufflepuffs, and modest. If Jacob's sibling chose to welcome Cedric, Penny would say she knew they would get along; if they chose to challenge him, they would insult his 'perfect but humble' image as an attention-seeking act, which would start a brief argument with Penny, but in both cases they were interrupted by Sickleworth running by. Regardless of choice, Penny apologetically declined helping with the investigation as she was to introduce Cedric to the Potions Club.
On the way of their hunt for Sickleworth, Jacob's sibling and Diego Caplan came across Beatrice and Ismelda tossing Puffskeins, and Beatrice accused them of spying on her for Penny, although they denied doing so. While searching, Jacob's sibling complained about Penny not helping them and Diego echoed with his disbelief that Penny would hold such a high opinion of Cedric. When Diego left to practice his duelling, Beatrice volunteered to help to prove to Penny that Hogwarts was unsafe; when they had a hard time finding Sickleworth, Beatrice mentioned how hard it was for her to hide from Penny. They then discussed Jacob and compared their relationships with their older siblings.[34]
When Jacob's sibling was meeting with Jae Kim and Andre Egwu to discuss a gift for a special client, Penny could be heard in the background worried that Beatrice was considering a nose ring.[35] When Tonks jokingly suggested to put Rowan on trial for being too depressing in a History of Magic lecture on the Salem Witch Trials, Penny said it was not Rowan's fault it is so sad.[36]
Jacob's sibling met Penny at the Three Broomsticks. Penny told them that Beatrice was still ignoring her, while Beatrice could be seen hanging out with Merula and Ismelda on the other side of the pub. Jacob's sibling told her of the death threat on one of their friends. Contrary to some others reactions, Penny was firm that the threat would not scare her from being their friend. Jacob's sibling had to convince her to brew a love potion for a deal they made in order to obtain an Invisibility cloak for their plan to sneak into the Ministry of Magic to retrieve Patricia Rakepick's dark artefacts before the latter could. Penny was very apprehensive about the potion, and may bring up Ismelda's fiasco with attempting to use a love potion on Barnaby last year; she became even more agitated when Jacob's sibling mentioned sneaking into the Ministry, as she feared they would be thrown into Azkaban for the infraction. After finally being convinced, she requested Jacob's sibling to gather the ingredients.
She apparently told Barnaby Lee that Muggle parents put up good grades of their children on fridges, although the latter said his parents were in Azkaban and they did not have a fridge. When Jacob's sibling and Rowan Khanna got reacquainted and reconciled at the Hogsmeade station, the latter mentioned that they knew Jacob's sibling would become popular when Penny befriended them.
Jacob's sibling went to the Artefact Room with the ingredients for a Love potion, but was surprised by Penny's uncharacteristically flat, stony attitude and asked her what was wrong. Penny told them that due to their request, she had been thinking about the matter of love; contrary to what she previously thought, she had come to the decision that the best way to show Beatrice that she loved her was to give her space. However, during the conversation, Jacob's sibling let slip about resenting their brother for leaving them again. When Andre Egwu came in saying Alistair Fidgen was impatient, Penny bottled up the love potion quickly for the trade.[37]
Jacob's sibling updated Penny and Charlie on the situation of a dark wizard escaping and likely coming after them. Charlie pointed out all their friends and their siblings may also be in danger. Penny, who was busy being worried about Jacob's sibling, did not think of that and started to reconsider her stance on Beatrice and her safety. When Charlie blamed Jacob's sibling for bringing danger to them, an angry Ben used Langlock on him. Penny was shocked and concerned; after Jacob's sibling used the General Counter-Spell to stop it, Charlie and Ben started yelling at each other and Penny begged them not to fight. However, Ben refused her attempts at reconciliation and told them to leave while he wanted to prove himself.[38]
At Poppy Pomfrey's request, Jacob's sibling asked Penny to help brew some Pepperup Potion. They thought Penny looked anxious and offered to do it themselves. While brewing, Penny revealed that she checked on Beatrice because of the threat of the escaped dark wizard, which led to another argument and their relationship becoming even worse than before. They also talked about Jacob, and Jacob's sibling responded with a more positive attitude, which also cheered Penny up.
Snape found the two and told them to go to the Hospital Wing for an emergency. When they rushed in, they found that Pomfrey has been petrified. Cedric was at the scene, but was too shaken to recount his story, until Penny emphasised with him, saying her sister was trapped in a portrait and that Jacob's sibling helped her cope. After his account, Penny said how this curse was the worst of all.[39]
After a DADA tutoring session, Bill asked Jacob's sibling, Ben, Merula, and either Penny or Charlie to stay behind to discuss the Cursed Vaults (depending on who was picked to enter the Buried Vault). If Penny did not visit the Buried Vault, she would still want to stay but relented when Bill said it is best only talked about between those who had been there. If Penny stayed, she would be told along with the others about Bill thinking the last vault is underwater and they should research where exactly it could be, and also stop Ben and Merula fighting. When Jacob's sibling and Beatrice snuck out to the Great Lake, Beatrice asked them whether they would tell Penny. She would be angry or relieved, but either way, she did not want to talk about Penny further.[40]
When Beatrice and Jacob's sibling met Jae at detention, Jae was surprised at how "Penny's little sister" looked so different. During detention, Beatrice said Penny would never get into detention. After they finished working, Penny came into the kitchens to give Jacob's sibling a message, and was shocked to see Beatrice there. Depending on their previous choice, either Jae let slip what Jacob's sibling and Beatrice were up to and their encounter with the Wizard in white robes, or Jacob's sibling explained themself. Penny became incredibly worried and upset hearing the story, but Beatrice stormed off and Penny told Jacob's sibling to leave because Talbott Winger needed to see them urgently.[41]
With the students confined in the castle as the Wizard in white robes is spotted nearby with Dementors hunting for him, Penny asked Professor Flitwick to teach her the Patronus Charm, but he refused.[42]
When students and staff gathered to mourn the death of Rowan Khanna, Penny could be seen weeping openly next to Jacob's sibling. If Penny did not go to the Buried Vault, she would say she knew why Rowan was in the forest. After Dumbledore's eulogy, they would meet at the corridor, where Penny may say she could burst into tears any moment. Penny revealed she told what she knew about 'R' and their threat to Rowan, which made the latter resolve to protect Jacob's sibling and thus followed them into the forest, and Penny blamed herself for Rowan's death. However, Jacob's sibling would blame themself or Rakepick.
Penny seemed to have a particularly hard time deal with her grief, not helped by Beatrice still refusing to talk to her. When the rest of their friends decided to go to Hogsmeade, Penny wanted to stay back with Beatrice but the latter told her to go. Beatrice said she wanted to help at the Hospital Wing and Penny should be with her friends; Penny was surprised at and appreciative of her empathy and maturity. Beatrice said she did not need Penny and asked Penny to take care of herself, expressed sympathy to Penny over her friend's death, and then burst into sobs; Penny pulled her into a big hug.
Penny was at Three Broomsticks when Jacob's sibling got everyone's attention and they began to reminiscence over Rowan. Afterwards, Penny and Charlie caught up with Jacob's sibling alone next to the fireplace, and the latter admitted they did not remember the last time they hung out with Rowan. Jae approached them and reminded them of the time they spent at the Hogsmeade Station, which cheered them up a little.[43]
Penny became a founding member of the Circle of Khanna, a group devoted to avenging Rowan Khanna and locating the final cursed vault. It was at the groups first meeting in the Hog's Head Inn that she learned more of the malevolent organisation "R" and its motives to locate the final Cursed Vault before them. Penny and Charlie already knew some of it and convinced others of its threat. Upon Ben revealing the name of the society, Penny began to cry again, saying that she thought she was done crying; Charlie told her it would only be done when 'R' was dealt with.
Beatrice, who was not in the group, was found with Ismelda and Merula talking about the issue. Jacob's sibling may choose to tell Penny of her involvement, or not. Ismelda and Merula were against letting Penny know, but Penny walked in, having learned where Beatrice was from Cedric. Penny said losing Rowan made her realise how easily she could lose someone. She apologised to Beatrice for not understanding her and pleaded her not to push her away this time. Ismelda made a slightly snide comment about Penny being weepy, but Beatrice defended her, and said she wanted Penny to stay.[44]
When Jacob's sibling was meeting Chiara Lobosca in the Great Hall, Penny said it was nice to talk to Beatrice again, and Jae mentioned Penny was teaching Circle of Khanna's concealment and disguises team Polyjuice Potion.[45]
If Jacob's sibling was not sure about being Alanza Alves's guide, they would suggest Penny instead, but Jacob's sibling would agree to be her guide at Dumbledore's insistence.[45]
When Jacob's sibling and Alanza Alves arrived at a meeting between Penny, Merula, Ismelda and Beatrice, Penny welcomed her warmly. Penny was not comfortable about the others stealing ingredients, but conceded it was the only way. She was surprised that Alanza recognised they were making Felix Felicis. Beatrice revealed Penny had the idea to use it to gain an advantage over Rakepick. Penny apologised for everyone being on edge and said she wished Alanza came at a better time.[46]
Penny practised duelling against Talbott Winger in the second meeting of the Circle of Khanna, among the other members.[47]
She attended an unusually late Astronomy class where Jacob's sibling, Ben, and Merula discussed the constellation of Cetus, but Penny slept through much of it.[48]
While searching for clues at the Boathouse with Charlie, Jacob's sibling saw a bunch of ropes and joked that Penny got the idea of her braids from them.[49]
When Jacob and Jacob's sibling found Beatrice floating unconscious in the lake, they brought her to the Hospital Wing. When Penny and Jacob's sibling visited her, she said she went to the lake because she had been having nightmares, saw a giant tentacle and dived in to possible find out more about the last cursed vault. When Jacob's sibling and Penny were alone, the former suggested asking Snape to figure out Beatrice's nightmares.[50]
Before the third meeting of the Circle of Khanna, Penny caught up with Beatrice and Jacob's sibling and learned how they are managing to move on together.[51]
Penny, along with Beatrice, Ismelda, Barnaby, and Ben, were asked by Merula to learn the Shield Charm from Jacob's sibling and join them in visiting the Whomping Willow, but they were interrupted by Argus Filch.[52]
Jacob's sibling convinced Penny to brew Polyjuice Potion to infiltrate 'R' and gathered the ingredients with her.[53]
Penny and Jacob's sibling met with Chiara Lobosca and Diego Caplan in the greenhouse to discuss the plan, and both Chiara and Diego had their reservations. Chiara also mentioned fluxweed needed to be picked under a full moon. They gathered knotgrass in the greenhouse together.
Penny met Jacob's sibling in the library and told them Snape prevented her from gathering the powdered Horn of Bicorn, although Jacob's sibling was confident they could get around him. They also needed Moste Potente Potions and Penny mentioned hearing someone tricking Madam Pince to get into the Restricted Section not long ago. When asked, Jacob's sibling may tell the truth, or lie which would be immediately exposed by a nearby student, at which Penny would ask them to be honest with her in the future. Jacob's sibling cast blue sparks and distracted Pince while Penny got the potion recipe, which landed Jacob's sibling in detention again. They later brewed the Polyjuice Potion together.[54]
Penny, in her Celestial Ball dress robes and hairstyle, served as the model painted by Badeea Ali and Barnaby Lee, standing still on a table on the Training Grounds, although their Polyjuice plan was still on her mind. They were joined by Andre Egwu, Alanza Alves, and Jacob's sibling after Alanza proposed a painting break from their Circle of Khanna business. Afterwards, as Andre, Alanza and Jacob's sibling discussed their further plans, Penny came to observe the paintings with Badeea and Barnaby.[55]
Jacob's sibling arrived at the Artefact Room to pick up the Polyjuice Potion from Penny and go over the plan with her. After the infiltration and the subsequent fight, Jacob's sibling called another meeting at the Hog's Head where Penny praised their courage. Jacob's sibling also revealed to everyone present that there is a mole working for 'R' in Hogwarts.[56]
Penny was among the seven Circle of Khanna members to review the Bubble-Head Charm in preparation for the vault in the lake.[57]
Penny was in the audience at Weird Sisters' concert at the lakeshore intended to appease the Merpeople.[58]
After Jacob's sibling's visit to the Merpeople village, they, along with Penny, Chiara, and Talbott, reviewed the experience and discussed obtaining the items to appease the Merqueen.[59]
Penny was among the Circle of Khanna members at the meeting to announce Patricia Rakepick's defeat and the breaking of the final curse. She was first seen chatting with Liz Tuttle, and later expressing that she was glad she could help with the Polyjuice Potion.[60]
Penny and Alanza Alves joined Jacob's sibling in planning a party to celebrate the breaking of all curses. The three of them helped out at the Three Broomsticks to convince Rosmerta to let them host the party there. She was later seen at the party dancing to Weird Sisters' performance.[61]
Seventh year
Jacob's sibling called a meeting with several Circle of Khanna members intending to expose Merula Snyde's apparent treachery. Before they could however, Penny suggested disbanding the Circle due to Rakepick's defeat, and spoke for the group's desire to go back to a more normal school life, discouraging Jacob's sibling from telling them.[62]
Penny witnessed the wandless duel between Merula and Jacob's sibling, which the latter lost despite Penny voicing her confidence in them.[63]
When Jacob's sibling uncovered the plot of Zenith Xeep's memory-erasing potion, they asked Penny for help, and they developed a counter-serum under Snape's instruction.[64] The counter-serum was effective, and as a side effect causes the user's hair to replicate the qualities of whatever hair is put into it; if Penny's hair is used, Ollivander would remark his hair feels "absolutely amazing".[65]
Physical appearance
Penny Haywood, the quintessential Hufflepuff
Penny had blue eyes, pale white skin and long blonde hair with two thick braids over her shoulders, and a braid on her left side that formed a ponytail, giving her a half up. She often styled her hair differently for special occasions, including a crown braid for Celestial Ball, a French braid for her potential first date with Jacob's sibling, and a side French braid for Valentine's Day and the Romance Festival. She would sometimes use magic to braid her hair when in a hurry.
Penny adorned different garments to special occasions (including her white and yellow dress robes at the Celestial Ball). True to her house's colours, those outfits always featured yellow prominently (with the sole exception of the Valentine's Day Ball)[66], which was also her favourite colour. However, she otherwise almost never wore anything other than her plain robes, as the standard Hogwarts uniform that is not modified or accessorised in any way, even outside class. This was in contrast to many of her schoolmates, including her dormitory mates Nymphadora Tonks and Chiara Lobosca, who almost never wore the school robes outside of school. Similarly, although she would eventually gift Jacob's sibling with a potion belt when they became very close friends, she was never seen wearing it, unlike Chiara's necklace or Rowan Khanna's glasses. In her seventh year she began wearing a casual outfit with a white shirt, blue denim jacket, yellow skirt and boots.
Penny was often considered attractive, whether by a friend like Jacob's sibling or the usually mean-spirited Ismelda Murk. Nymphadora Tonks claimed that Penny was pretty enough to repel a Red Cap without the need of a Beautification Potion.
Penny had a somewhat shrill voice, and was prone to shrieks when startled or very excited. Multiple people mistook her screaming as that from a banshee.[67]
Personality and traits
Penny's cheerful demeanour
"Penny is like Snape if Snape is nothing like Snape."
— Nymphadora Tonks[src]
Penny was sociable, approachable, and pleasant; regarded as the most popular girl in her year while attending Hogwarts. As a result of her social standing and vast network of friends, she was also very well-informed about the happenings at Hogwarts. Penny was often excitable, eager to hang out and help friends, and sometimes easily distracted.
She was known to value bravery and compassion greatly, thanking Jacob's sibling for having the courage to stand up to the school bully Merula Snyde. She even befriended Jacob's sibling shortly thereafter due to, in part, their kindness towards Ben Copper and their shared love for potions. She was very empathetic and often expressed sympathy at the plight of others, even to shunned and bullied students, and often attempted to mediate arguments. She was also good friends with Liz Tuttle and Talbott Winger, who were both considered outcasts, showing that despite her popularity, she was still humble, decent and treated others very respectfully. She also befriended Chiara Lobosca and helped her manage her condition, despite Penny's crippling fear of werewolves. She was empathetic even to the frequently antagonistic Merula Snyde and Ismelda Murk, willing to help them out of serious trouble.[68][69] This stood in direct contrast to Gryffindor Emily Tyler, who called Penny "too nice"; Emily's popularity depended largely on her bullying and teasing of students she didn't like, and others only hung out with her so she wouldn't bully them. Other Hufflepuffs in her year liked Penny a lot and even said that if someone was Penny's friend, they are their friend. Some of them pretended to do poorly at Herbology just so that Penny would help them.
Apart from her incredible popularity and kindness, Penny was also very intelligent and magically gifted, as proven by her talents in potion-making, which was rivalled by very few of her fellow students, and was also competent with charm-work. While sweet-natured, she could also be a fierce and fearless protector of her friends and especially her younger sister she dearly loved.
She was an avid fan of Quidditch, especially Wigtown Wanderers, her adopted hometown team, to the point that she would paint her face to the same house colour as Skye Parkin, the new Quidditch Chaser from the fabled Parkin Family. Although she would never use Felix Felicis to cheat, she liked to recite the potion's ingredients as her way of wishing for luck, and ate horseradish for a week before a big Quidditch match because it was one of them.[70] In sharp contrast to her usually pacifistic demeanour, Penny was an advocate of rough play in Quidditch, to the point Jacob's sibling described her as "bloodthirsty".[67]
"What I'm trying to say is... I'm sorry. I should've been more understanding, Bea. You can yell at me, accuse me of smothering you, or even hate me if you want. But, for now, at least, please let me stay by your side. Please don't push me away. I lost Rowan. I can't lose you too."
— Penny Haywood, before bursting into tears[src]
A classic Hufflepuff, Penny was dedicated, loyal, and hardworking; however, she did exhibit darker aspects of her personality. She reacted very poorly to Merula Snyde stealing her credit, was sometimes prone to reckless potion-taking in stress or grief, and she could be stubborn and resistant to change. Her strong attachment to those close to her could cause her to be overprotective, excessively dedicated to the detriment of herself, or becoming an emotional wreck from loss. Penny could be talkative and gossipy, occasionally saying things she did not mean to. She let slip about Andre's grandmother being ill, and told Jacob's sibling they don't understand how she felt about Beatrice being trapped in a painting, despite their brother having been missing for years. However, she almost immediately realised that it was insensitive and apologised. While usually one to revel in the spotlight, she did occasionally feel the social pressure of her popularity and could be insecure about how she looked.
In her earlier years, she found it exciting that Jacob's sibling would invite her to dangerous adventures while others only invite her to parties; the tragic murders of two of her close friends and her sister's imprisonment and subsequent falling out affected her deeply. She suffered from chronic nightmares, and dipped into depression and occasional fearfulness (possibly exhibiting symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder). Despite all this, with the help of her friends, her good nature always ultimately pulled through.
Magical abilities and skills
Penny making an experimental potion in the Potions Classroom
Potions: Penny had proven herself to be very skilful in this branch of magic, as she achieved impressive results in Potions class and often enjoyed brewing experimental mixtures in her free time. She successfully brewed the Sleeping Draught in her first year and the Forgetfulness Potion in her third year, as early examples of her talent in potion-making. She was also capable of brewing the advanced Draught of Peace in her fifth year with the help of Jacob's sibling, which she did with success, showing her considerable proficiency in this subtle magical art and science. Other potions she made or claimed to make included Wolfsbane Potion, Polyjuice Potion and the Animagus potion, all of which were highly advanced and further testament to her skill in this field. Indeed, Severus Snape himself openly acknowledged Penny to be his most gifted student in the subject, and deemed her the only one eligible to receive a private lesson from him on the highly advanced field of Alchemy.
Charms: Penny was rather good with charm-work, as she was capable of successfully casting the Fire-Making Spell,[71] Colour Change Charm along with the Knockback Jinx, showing she was skilled with the casting of such charms.
Duelling: Penny was a proficient duellist and would sometimes duel Jacob's sibling.
Healing magic: Penny had some skill in the field of healing, as she was able to successfully cast the Episkey healing spell.
Dark Arts: Penny was shown to be possess a degree of skill in the Dark Arts, being able to successfully cast dark charms such as the Knockback Jinx, the Full Body-Bind Curse and the Ear-Shrivelling Curse.
Herbology: Penny was skilled in Herbology, as she was able to achieve an O.W.L. in the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level, thus showing aptitude in the subject.[72]
Astronomy: Penny was skilled in Astronomy, as she was able to achieve an O.W.L. in the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level, thus showing aptitude in the subject.[48]
History of Magic: Penny was skilled in History of Magic, as she was able to achieve an O.W.L. in the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level, thus showing aptitude in the subject.
Transfiguration: Penny eventually learned how to ably cast the Lovebird to Love Note spell in her fifth year, and was also able to cast both the transforming spell Vera Verto and the Feather Duster to Ferret switching spell successfully in her O.W.L exam.
Defence Against the Dark Arts: Penny was skilled in Defence Against the Dark Arts, as she was to achieve an O.W.L. in the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level, thus showing aptitude in the subject.
Flying: Penny had some skill in flying as she constantly took flying lessons with Jacob's sibling, although she had a fear of heights.
Social Networking: Due to her remarkably pleasant and affable nature, Penny was able to easily befriend most people at Hogwarts and swiftly establish a rapport with them, which quickly earned her a long-standing reputation for being the most popular girl in her year, to the point that she is known for knowing all the gossip travelling at Hogwarts. This was notable through her awareness of the reason behind Merula Snyde's antics, Ben Copper's cowardice, Jacob's sibling's public scrutiny, and Albus Dumbledore's school departures. Despite being frequently well-informed and thus being renowned for knowing everybody at Hogwarts, however, Penny's network and social contacts were not always a perfect source of information, as she was unfamiliar with abrasive Quidditch player Erika Rath, and had never heard of famed Curse-Breaker Patricia Rakepick up until the latter's arrival at Hogwarts.
Possessions
Wand: Penny owned a wand, which had a Unicorn hair core, but was of an unknown length and wood. She likely purchased her wand from Ollivanders in Diagon Alley, prior to starting her first year at Hogwarts in 1984, and wielded her wand throughout her school life.
Advanced Potion-Making: Penny owned a copy of Advanced Potion-Making that Jacob's sibling and Aurélie Dumont borrowed to learn more about Alchemy and to help them in their search for Nicolas Flamel's artefact in the 1985–1986 school year.
The Wonder of Wigtown Wanderers: Penny owned a copy that is signed by Ethan Parkin.[67]
Dress robes: Penny wore a set of dress robes to the Celestial Ball. They were a two piece with a white sleeveless top, trimmed with silver and yellow layered tulle with a black beaded necklace.
Wizard's Chess set: Penny owned a set which she allowed Jacob's sibling to borrow.
Etymology
Penny is an an English diminutive of the Greek name Penelope, which is derived from "pēnē" meaning woven cloth and "lepō" meaning "to peel", so basically Penny means "unraveling cloth".
Haywood is a habitational name from any of various places, for example in Herefordshire. Nottinghamshire, Shropshire, and Staffordshire, so called from Old English (ge)hæg "enclosure" + wudu "wood". It was a common practice in the Middle Ages for areas of woodland to be fenced off as hunting grounds for the nobility.
Behind the scenes
"Pleasant and popular Penny Haywood knows all the latest gossip around Hogwarts. She can use her potion skills to get you out of tricky situations."
— Penny's character description[src]
Penny and Jacob's sibling in the "Back To Hogwarts" trailer
Penny's potion belt
In Herbology lessons, Penny shared that the Hogwarts greenhouses reminded her of Kew Gardens, where her father used to take her visit.[73]
In Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Penny is unlocked as a friend upon the completion of Chapter 7 of Year 1.
Upon reaching maximum friendship at level 10 with Penny, a unique clothing item is gifted to the player: A T-shirt with a potions belt on. Note that the belt is permanently attached to the shirt and cannot be removed.
In Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, the player controls the friendship between Jacob's sibling and Penny, including how to interact with her and what they share with her. They may decide whether to invite Penny with them to the locked room she helped create the Sleeping Draught for.[11]
Original concept art of Penny Haywood
By year 4, the player is able to express romantic interest in Penny (regardless of Jacob's sibling's gender), causing Penny to promise to the player that they will discuss their feelings for each other after Beatrice is rescued. While a large variety of characters are possible dates in side quests, this occurred prior to their releases and is so far the only such moment in the main story, making Penny the closest thing to a canonical love interest for Jacob's sibling.
Penny is one of the four characters (along with Merula Snyde, Andre Egwu, and Barnaby Lee) available as romance options for all dating side quests: Celestial Ball, First Date, Valentine's Day, Festival Fun, Valentine's Day Ball, and An Enchanted Kiss. While all romance options gain unique outfits and occasionally other appearance changes, Penny is the only one whose hairstyle changes noticeably in every dating side quest (except An Enchanted Kiss where none have unique outfits). In 2021 she was remodelled with a casual outfit which composed of a shirt with a denim jacket and a skirt.
Penny's Celestial Ball appearance varied prior to release, with concept art showing her dress to be entirely yellow, and leaked model showing her wearing what appears to be a golden laurel wreath.
In her fifth year, Snape's criticism of her handling of Beatrice's situation echoed his remarks towards then-fifth year Harry Potter on the principles of Occlumency, considering them weak for being openly emotional and wallowing in their grief. However, given that Snape's loyalties ultimately lay with the protagonists, this could be seen as having been for their own good; after hearing that, Harry did understand the importance of and eventually succeeded in blocking his connection with Voldemort, and Jacob's sibling was spurred to support Penny and prevent her from a path of self-destruction.
Jacob's sibling may choose Penny to accompany them in their search for the Vault of Ice; if she is chosen. she will use a Strengthening Solution to allow herself to tear open a frozen door.
Starting from her first Valentine's Day model (including all later dating sidequests and her casual wear), Penny's eye colour changes from a dark periwinkle to a noticeably lighter Robin's egg blue.
Penny owned a copy of Advanced Potion-Making that she had scribbled notes all over to the point of needing a fresh copy, much like Severus Snape's copy.[74]
In her Hippogriff Club quiz encounter, the correct answer to "What plant is kelp related to?" is "Seaweed." In real life, kelp is a type of seaweed, and neither are plants; they are algae, a group of organisms that have existed for hundreds of millions of years before land plants appeared.
Penny has appeared in various advertisements of Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery with various levels of canon adherence. Most notably, she is one of the three Hogwarts students to have featured in multiple cinematic trailers (Back to Hogwarts, Valentine's, 3rd Anniversary) along with Barnaby Lee and Emma (a brown-skinned, dark short-haired female version of Jacob's sibling).
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 134 images related to Penny Haywood.
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Side Quest "Penny for Your Thoughts"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 1 (Year Three Begins) - Herbology Lesson "Valerian Sprigs"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 18 (Into the Forest)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Side Quest "WELCOME TO THE SPHINX CLUB"
↑
5.0 5.1 5.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Quidditch Season 1, Chapter 1 (Welcome to Quidditch)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 20 (A Circle of Friends)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5 onward, History of Magic Lessons in general
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5 onward, Defence Against the Dark Arts Lessons in general
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 1 (Year Five Begins)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 6 (A Curious Corridor)
↑
11.0 11.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 8 (Preparing for the Room)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, "Howling Hallowe'en" Achievement
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 10 (The Vault of Ice)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, "DUELLING DEATHDAY PARTIES" Achievement
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, "A SPECIAL CELEBRATION OF HOGWARTS TEACHERS!" Achievement
↑ The "Penny for Your Thoughts" side quest triggers in year 3, in which Penny says Scarlett was killed "last year", which can be interpreted as the summer of 1985 or 1986 (between year 1 and year 2, or between year 2 and year 3). However, in "The Hallowe'en Feast" side quest, which can be triggered as early as year 1, Penny mentions her friend has already been killed by a werewolf. However, as in Penny's account in "Penny for Your Thoughts" Penny already had a wand and was capable of doing magic with it at the time of Scarlett's death, it is unlikely it occurred in the summer prior to attending Hogwarts. On the other hand, as "Penny for Your Thoughts" has been removed, it can be considered that Scarlett's death may have been retconned to occur before Penny's time in Hogwarts.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Side Quest "Puppy-Dog Tales"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 1 (Year Five Begins)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 2 (Grave Danger)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 12 (The Vault Portrait)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 19 (The Unforgivable Curses)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 20 (Peter Pettigrew)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 28 (About Merula)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 29 (Final Preparations)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 30 (Into the Vault)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 31 (After the Vault)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 33 (Bye-Bye Bill)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Side Quest "Crushed"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 1 (Year Six Begins)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 2 (Curses and Prophecies)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 4 (Friends in Low Places)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 5 (Wherefore Art Thou, Weasleys?)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 6 (On Jacob's Trail)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 7 (Niffler Hunting)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 10 (Cloaks and Conflicts)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 10 (Cloaks and Conflicts) - History of Magic Lesson "Witch Trials of 1692"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 11 (Love in a Bottle)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 13 (On the Run)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 14 (A New Friend of a Friend)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 15 (In the Deep End)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 16 (The Wizard In White)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 18 (Into the Forest)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 19 (A Farewell To A Friend)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 20 (A Circle of Friends)
↑
45.0 45.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 21 (Moving Forward)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 22 (The Exchange Student)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 24 (Return to the Forest)
↑
48.0 48.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 25 (Written in the Stars) - Astronomy Lesson "Lunar Phases"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 26 (Unfinished Business)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 27 (Letting Go)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 28 (Moving On)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 29 (The Whomping Willow Awaits)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 31 (The Polyjuice Plan)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 32 (Quest for Polyjuice)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 33 (Imitation Game)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 35 (Infiltrating 'R')
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 36 (Search for the Mole)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 38 (Meeting the Merqueen)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 39 (Gather the Merqueen's Tribute)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 43 (What's Next)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 44 (The Perfect Party)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 1 (Year Seven Begins)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 2 (More Questions Than Answers)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 13 (Side Effects May Include Memory Loss)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 15 (The Counter-Serum)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Side Quest "Valentine's Day Ball"
↑
67.0 67.1 67.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Quidditch Season 2, Time-Limited Side Quest "The Second Quidditch Cup"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Side Quest "Welcome to the Sphinx Club"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Side Quest "Crushed"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Quidditch Season 1, Chapter 12
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 8 (Training the Team)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 2 (Curses and Prophecies) - Herbology Lesson "Fluxweed"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3 onward, Herbology Lessons in general
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "Become an Animagus" Achievement