Phoebus Penrose
Biographical information
Born
Before 1981[1]
Nationality
British[2]
Title(s)
Professor[2]
Physical information
Species
Human[2]
Gender
Male[2]
Affiliation
Occupation
Head of a research committee of the Ministry of Magic[2]
Loyalty
British Ministry of Magic[2]
[Source]
"Muggles are more observant than we might like to think."
— Professor Penrose[src]
Professor Phoebus Penrose was a British wizard who worked for the Ministry of Magic. He was head of the committee that wrote the report "A Study into Muggle Suspicions about Magic".[2]
Contents
1 Behind the scenes
2 Etymology
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Behind the scenes
Phoebus was referred to in the Daily Prophet by the title "Professor." He likely had the title for conducting wizarding research and development. However, it is unknown whether he ever taught at Hogwarts, or for another wizarding school.
Etymology
The name "Phoebus" is the Latinized form of the Greek name Φοιβος (Phoibos), which meant "bright, pure". This was an epithet of the Greek god Apollo.
Appearances
Daily Prophet Newsletters (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑ As he was Head of a Research Committee by 1998, he was presumably over 17.
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 Daily Prophet Newsletters: 31 July, 1998, Page 1

Ministry of Magic Departments
Unknown Levels
Archives · Committee on Experimental Charms · Department of Magical Artefacts · Department of Magical Education · Exploding Bonbons Disposal Unit · Magical Maintenance Department · Office for the Removal of Curses, Jinxes, and Hexes · Public Information Services · Remittance Office · Research Committee · Very Important Members of Section M.I. Trx. · Wizarding Examinations Authority
Committee on Experimental Charms Personnel
Balfour Blane · Gilbert Wimple
Department of Magical Artefacts Personnel
Sage Bragnam (Head Curator)
Magical Maintenance Department Personnel
Reginald Cattermole · Orford Umbridge · Lift attendant · Man
Research Committee Personnel
Phoebus Penrose (Head)
Wizarding Examinations Authority Personnel
Griselda Marchbanks · Professor Tofty · Unidentified plump little witch examiner · Unidentified examiner with a wart on his nose