Piers Polkiss
Biographical information
Born
c. 1980
Blood status
Muggle[1]
Nationality
British[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Relationship information
Family members
Mrs Polkiss (mother)[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Dudley Dursley's gang[1]
Smeltings Academy[2]
[Source]
"Piers was a scrawny boy with a face like a rat. He was usually the one who held people's arms behind their backs while Dudley hit them."
— A description of Piers[src]
Piers Polkiss was a Muggle and Dudley Dursley's best friend, when they were young.[1] Despite being scrawny with a face like a rat, he was a member of Dudley Dursley's gang and was usually the one who held people's arms behind their backs so Dudley could hit them. Piers did not like Harry Potter, because Dudley did not, and he always followed Dudley's lead.[1] Piers would also join Dudley at Smeltings Academy.[2]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 1991
1.2 1995
2 Etymology
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Biography
1991
"Harry was talking to it, weren't you, Harry?"
— Piers' shock after witnessing Harry Potter talk to a snake[src]
Harry Potter, Piers Polkiss and Dudley Dursley
On 23 June 1991, Dudley's eleventh birthday, Piers accompanied him, the Dursleys and Harry to the zoo. During the trip, Piers saw Harry talking to a snake in the reptile house. When Harry was pushed out of the way, and then unintentionally made the glass disappear, Piers and Dudley jumped back in surprise. When Piers told the Dursleys that Harry had been talking to the snake, they gave Harry his longest ever punishment.[1]
1995
"Nice right hook, Big D."
— Piers congratulating Dudley[src]
During the summer of 1995, Dudley lied to his parents saying that he was at the Polkisses' having tea, although Piers was with Dudley's gang as they roamed the neighbourhood, bullying younger children.[3]
Etymology
Piers is of Anglo-Saxon heritage and means "rock". It is a variant of Peter, from the Greek for "rock". Polkiss may be a variation of Polk, which itself is a variation of the Scottish names Pogue, Pollack, or Pollock, meaning "from the pool or pit".
Behind the scenes
Due to being Dudley's closest friend of the group, Piers was most likely the gang's second-in-command.
Piers Polkiss was portrayed by Jason Boyd in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
Piers Polkiss was not mentioned nor did he appear in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.
Piers Polkiss has not appeared in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4 and LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7.
It is mentioned several times in the books that all the members of Dudley's gang were big and stupid, but Piers was always described as being scrawny with a face like a rat. It is possible that Piers was scrawny when compared to the other members or that he gained a significant amount of weight after he went to the zoo with Dudley and Harry.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 2 (The Vanishing Glass)
↑
2.0 2.1 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 3 (The Letters from No One)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 1 (Dudley Demented)
Dudley Dursley's gang
Leader
Dudley Dursley
Members
Piers Polkiss · Dennis · Dudley Dursley · Gordon · Malcolm
This article about a specific character is a stub. You can help by expanding it.