"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Potter memorial
Object information
Location
Godric's Hollow, West Country, England, Great Britain[1]
Made
Post 1981[1]
Usage
As a memorial to James and Lily Potter and a dedication to Harry Potter[1]
Owners
St Jerome's graveyard[1]
[Source]
"As they had passed it, it had transformed. Instead of an obelisk covered in names, there was a statue of three people: a man with untidy hair and glasses, a woman with long hair and a kind, pretty face, and a baby boy sitting in his mother’s arms. Snow lay upon all their heads, like fluffy white caps. Harry drew closer, gazing up into his parents’ faces. He had never imagined that there would be a statue.... How strange it was to see himself represented in stone, a happy baby without a scar on his forehead...."
— Harry Potter and Hermione Granger viewing this memorial in Godric's Hollow[src]
The Potter memorial was a statue at the centre of the village square in Godric's Hollow.
Contents
1 Description
2 History
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Description
The memorial
From a distance, it appeared as an obelisk, carved with the names of people who died in a war (presumably Muggle casualties of one or more previous conflicts).
While Muggles could see only this obelisk, a witch or wizard could see that the memorial changes into a statue of a family as they approached: James, Lily, and an infant Harry Potter.[1]
It was said that in the winter, the snow looked like knit caps on the heads of the statues. The infant Harry was said to look content in his mother's arms.[1]
History
Harry Potter and Hermione Granger visited Godric's Hollow during Christmas of 1997 while they hunted Voldemort's Horcruxes in order for Harry to see where he had been born (and lost his parents) as well as possibly where Dumbledore left Godric Gryffindor's sword for them. They visited the memorial, as well as Harry's parents graves.[1]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)
Pottermore
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
LEGO Dimensions
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 16 (Godric's Hollow)