Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
"Point me!"
This article is about the attacker of both Jacob's sibling and Ben Copper. You may be looking for R's first messenger, who was Ben Copper.
"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
R's second messenger
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Magical characteristics
Wand
Unknown length, wood and core[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
R (possibly)[1]
Dark Arts[1]
[Source]
"I told you death was coming to Hogwarts, [Jacob's sibling]. We still need you alive, but before this year ends... One of your friends has to die..."
— This Dark Wizard's ominous threat to Jacob's sibling[src]
This individual was a Dark Wizard or Witch who attacked Jacob's sibling and Ben Copper at the start of the 1988–1989 school year of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Physical appearance
3 Magical abilities and skills
4 Behind the scenes
5 Appearances
6 Notes and references
Biography
At the start of the 1988–1989 school year, when Jacob's sibling and Ben Copper were talking in the Courtyard, they subdued both students in the Hogwarts courtyard with a Full Body-Bind Curse before telling Jacob's sibling that they warned them that "death" was coming to Hogwarts, and that they needed them alive, but that before the school term ended, one of their friends would have to die.[1]
Physical appearance
This individual's physical features were completely unidentifiable, due to being hidden by a red cloak.[1]
Magical abilities and skills
Dark Arts: This individual appeared to be an accomplished Dark Wizard, as they were capable of performing the Full Body-Bind Curse proficiently.[1]
Behind the scenes
Unlike with the first messenger, the identity of his individual is not revealed in the game. It is unknown if they will be indentified in future game information.
Appearances
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 1 (Year Five Begins)