Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Roger Davies
Biographical information
Born
between 1 September 1977 and 31 August 1978 (likely)[1]
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Title(s)
Quidditch Captain
Chaser
Physical information
Species
Human[3]
Gender
Male[3]
Relationship information
Family members
Chester Davies[4] (brother)
Davies family
Romances
Fleur Delacour (Yule Ball date)[5]
Unknown girlfriend[6]
Cho Chang (ex-girlfriend)[6]
Affiliation
House
Ravenclaw[3]
Loyalty
Davies family[4]
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry[3]
Ravenclaw[3]
Ravenclaw Quidditch team[3]
[Source]
"Roger Davies, the Ravenclaw Quidditch Captain, was sitting about a foot and a half away with a pretty blonde girl... In the time it took for their coffees to arrive, Roger Davies and his girlfriend had started kissing over their sugar bowl."
— Roger on a Valentine's Day date[src]
Roger Davies (c. 1977/1978) was a wizard who was a Ravenclaw student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1989-1996. He was the Captain of the Ravenclaw Quidditch team and played as a Chaser.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Hogwarts years
1.2.1 Early years
1.2.2 Sixth year
1.2.3 Seventh year
2 Magical abilities and skills
3 Relationships
3.1 Fleur Delacour
3.2 Cho Chang
3.3 Girlfriend
4 Behind the scenes
5 Etymology
6 Appearances
7 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Roger was born between 1 September 1977 and 31 August 1978[1] in Great Britain or Ireland. He had an older brother named Chester Davies who was also in Ravenclaw.[4]
Hogwarts years
Early years
He began attending Hogwarts on 1 September 1989[1] and was sorted into Ravenclaw house. He joined the Ravenclaw Quidditch team as a Chaser and eventually became their Captain.[3]
Sixth year
"Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies stationed themselves nearest the doors; Davies looked so stunned by his good fortune in having Fleur for a partner that he could hardly take his eyes off her."
— Roger is Triwizard champion Fleur Delacour's Yule Ball date[src]
Roger at the Yule Ball with Fleur
In 1994, Roger was Fleur Delacour's date at the Yule Ball. He was very taken with the part-Veela witch's beauty and charm. He was so mesmerised, in fact, that he was looking at her the whole time and did not notice what she was actually saying, as well as repeatedly missing his own mouth with his fork while trying to eat. After dancing for some time at the ball, Roger and Fleur left for the gardens, sneaking into the rose bushes for a romantic engagement.[5]
Seventh year
"He asked me out, you know. A couple: of weeks ago. Roger. I turned him down, though."
— Cho Chang regarding how Roger asked her on a date[src]
Roger and Cho Chang sitting next to each other in the Great Hall
According to Cho Chang, Roger asked her to go out with him shortly after the death of Cedric Diggory in June of 1995. She refused, as she was interested in Harry Potter at the time, though she brought this incident up to Harry when they went on a date in 1996 at Madam Puddifoot's Tea Shop, apparently to make him jealous.[6]
Roger was also there with his own date for Valentine's Day; Harry watched them for clues as to what to do with Cho, whom he thought was eyeing Roger as if she wished she were with him instead. When Cho left the teashop in a dramatic and tearful fashion, Roger, along with the rest of the customers in the teashop, looked at Harry, who was left behind.[6]
Magical abilities and skills
Flying: Davies was evidently a highly talented and accomplished Broomstick flyer, given how he managed to play for the Ravenclaw Quidditch team as initially the Chaser and later the team's Quidditch Captain.[3]
Relationships
Fleur Delacour
Fleur Delacour, his Yule Ball date who he was smitten with
During 1994, Davies attended the Yule Ball as Fleur's partner. He was apparently too smitten by her part-Veela magic to actually take note of anything she said, most of which was criticism of Hogwarts, while constantly missing his own mouth with the fork during dinner. The two apparently enjoyed their time together, as they had a romantic night within the bushes during the later parts of the Ball.[5] However, they did not keep in contact after the Triwizard Tournament ended, and Fleur later married Bill Weasley.[7]
Cho Chang
Cho Chang, his former girlfriend
Sometime after Cedric Diggory's death, Roger asked Cho out, to which she refused, being interested in Harry Potter at the time. Cho would later use this event to gauge Harry's feelings for her based on the jealousy he would produce, though he was only confused. Cho also watched Roger and his girlfriend holding hands and kissing over their sugar bowl in Madam Puddifoot's Tea Shop, as though they were setting a standard that she expected Harry to live up to. Roger and his girlfriend stopped kissing to look at Harry in astonishment when Cho departed dramatically after an argument.[6]
Girlfriend
Roger got himself a girlfriend sometime before 1996's Valentine's day, and the two seemed to be passionate with their relationship, as they were holding hands and kissing frequently over their sugar bowl inside Madam Puddifoot's Tea Shop.[6]
Behind the scenes
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Roger Davies was played by Henry Lloyd-Hughes.
Etymology
Means "famous spear" from the Germanic elements hrod "fame" and ger "spear". The Normans brought this name to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Hroðgar (the name of the Danish king in the Anglo-Saxon epic 'Beowulf'). It was a common name in England during the Middle Ages.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 12 images related to Roger Davies.
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (First identified as Roger Davies)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Appears in flashback(s))
Pottermore
Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 Roger was certainly older than Harry Potter, as Fleur Delacour dismissed Harry (who was then fourteen) as a "little boy" but attended the Yule Ball with Roger in 1994. He was also captain of Ravenclaw's Quidditch team from at least 1993 to 1996, making him approximately two years older than Harry if we follow the pattern of every captain being in their fifth year onwards. He makes no appearance in Harry's sixth year, by then he would have graduated.
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Chapter 13 (Gryffindor versus Ravenclaw)
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
↑
5.0 5.1 5.2 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 23 (The Yule Ball)
↑
6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 25 (The Beetle at Bay)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 8 (The Wedding)

Quidditch positions at Hogwarts
Captains
Filemina Alchin · Astrix Alixan · Orion Amari · Angelina Appleby · Oona Ballington · Concepta Battista · Hugh Biggs · Richard Carter · Angelica Cole · Stuart Craggy · Winky Crockett · Roger Davies · Cedric Diggory · Marcus Flint · Hamish Frater · Stephen Gould · David Hamblin · Natalie Holkham · Jody Jacknife · Angelina Johnson · Jo King · Neil Lament · Steve Laughalot · Graham Montague · Mark Overcliff · Andrew Snowy Owl · Harry Potter · Isobel Ross · Ashley Sanders · Lucinda Talkalot · Urquhart · Emma Vanity · Charlie Weasley · Rufus Winickus · Oliver Wood
Keepers
Kevin Bletchley · Miles Bletchley · Brennan Doyle · Andre Egwu · Herbert Fleet · Geoffrey Hooper · Cormac McLaggen · Grant Page · Ron Weasley · Oliver Wood · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Gryffindor Keeper · Unidentified Slytherin Keeper · Unidentified Keeper (I) · Unidentified Keeper (II)
Chasers
Orion Amari · Tamsin Applebee · Katie Bell · Bradley · Randolph Burrow · Cadwallader · Chambers · Roger Davies · Eekins · Marcus Flint · Rose Granger-Weasley · Jarrett · Angelina Johnson · Heidi Macavoy · Graham Montague · Ethan Parkin · Skye Parkin · James Potter · Malcolm Preece · Adrian Pucey · Demelza Robins · Zacharias Smith · Alicia Spinnet · Jeremy Stretton · Dean Thomas · Urquhart · Vaisey · Cassius Warrington · Ginny Weasley · Blaise Zabini · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Chaser · Unidentified Chaser (II) · Unidentified fourth year Chaser · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (I) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (II) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (III) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (IV) · Erika Rath's friend (I)
Beaters
Bean · Lucian Bole · Ritchie Coote · Vincent Crabbe · Peregrine Derrick · Dobbin · Gregory Goyle · Duncan Inglebee · Andrew Kirke · Michael McManus · Maxine O'Flaherty · Jimmy Peakes · Erika Rath · Anthony Rickett · Jason Samuels · Jack Sloper · Fred Weasley · George Weasley · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Beater · Unidentified Gryffindor beater · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (I) · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (II)
Seekers
Regulus Black · Cho Chang · Cedric Diggory · Andre Egwu · Harper · Terence Higgs · Gilderoy Lockhart · Draco Malfoy · Harry Potter · Summerby · Charlie Weasley · Ginny Weasley · Unidentified Gryffindor seeker · Unidentified Hufflepuff Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Substitute Seeker · Unidentified Seeker · Unidentified Seeker (II)
Unknown Positions
Vicky Bishopper · Robin Higgy · R. King · M. G. McGonagall · Katie Rayknolls · Erika Rath's friend (II)
Possible Players
Christian Alexander · Brandon Angel · Jada Angela · Owen Anthony · Tanner Van Burm · Haley Dakota · Jennifer Dawn · Fay Dunbar · Riley Frazer · Ethan Gerard · Ryan Henry · Erica J. · Ella Jo · Timothy Justin · Sage Kelleen · Luisa · Trinity Lynn · Trev Mallory · Alexis Marie · Gianna Grace Marie · Abigail Nicola · Amber Noel · Phelan Noel · Remy Olivier · Jackson Sheppard · Richard Sky · Emily Taylor · Alexander William