Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
Saranna Wilkinson
Biographical information
Nationality
American
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Relationship information
Family members
Charity Wilkinson (possibly)
Wilkinson family
Affiliation
Occupation
Auror
Loyalty
Magical Congress of the United States of America
Department of Magical Law Enforcement
Department of Aurors
[Source]
"An international visit from the American Auror, Saranna Wilkinson leaves you with several very useful tips, increasing the amount of damage done with a successful Critical Cast."
— Description[src]
Saranna Wilkinson was an American witch who was employed as an Auror by the Magical Congress of the United States of America.[1]
Biography
In the 2010s, Saranna Wilkinson visited the Ministry of Magic in London during the Calamity. She gave spellcasting tips to Professor members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force to aid them in their field work.[1]
Appearances
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see this)
Magical Congress of the United States of America
Presidents
Josiah Jackson (1693-?) · Charity Wilkinson · Thornton Harkaway (c. 1760) · Able Fleming · Elizabeth McGilliguddy (c. 1777) · Emily Rappaport (c. 1790) · Seraphina Picquery (1920-1928) · Samuel G. Quahog (c. 2014)
Aurors
Abraham Potter · Achilles Tolliver · Berthilde Roche · Carlos Lopez · Cas Carneirus · Cormac O'Brien · E. A. Limus · Gondulphus Graves · Helmut Weiss · M. L. Minus · M. P. Carneirus · Mary Jauncey · Mungo MacDuff · Percival Graves · Porpentina Goldstein · Robert Grimsditch · Saranna Wilkinson · Theodard Fontaine · Wilhelm Fischer · Unidentified MACUSA Aurors
Other positions
Apparition Examiner · Auror Commissioner · Captain of Aurors · Chief Auror · Chief of Staff · Director of Magical Security · Executioner · Federal Identity Commissioner · Federal Wand Permit Officer · Keeper of Treasure and Dragots · Obliviator ·Surveillor of Activity
Other employees
Abernathy · Albert Perschky · Aristotle Twelvetrees · Bernadette · Beryl · Cecily · E. A. Limus · F. Wakefield · Irene Kneedander · J. Ward · L. O'Sullivan · Magali Crowe · Paloma Proudfoot · Queenie Goldstein · Red · Ruby · Sam · Unidentified executioner (I) · Unidentified executioner (II) · Unidentified guide · Y. Blishen
Departments
Body for Protection of Magical Species · Department of Aurors · Department of Magical Law Enforcement · Department of No-Maj Misinformation · Department of Unidentifiable Magical Objects · Department for Confiscated Items · Federal Bureau of Covert Vigilance and No-Maj Obliviation · MACUSA Communications Department · MACUSA Investigation Department · MACUSA Surveillance Wizarding Resources Department · Magical Cleaning Department · Major Investigation Department · Office for Magic Relations and Education · US Auror Divisions · Wand Permit Department · Wizarding Resources Department
Locations
Death Cell · Great Meeting Chamber · Lobby · No-Maj Fraternisation sub-division · Pentagram Office · Percival Graves' office · Register Office · Typing Pool · Wand Permit Office · Young Wizards Daycare Center