"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
"Point me!"
This article is about the Shrunken Head in the Three Broomsticks. You may be looking for the Shrunken Head on the Knight Bus or Shrunken Heads in general.
Shrunken heads in the Three Broomsticks
Physical information
Species
Shrunken heads[1]
Gender
Males[1]
Hair colour
Dark (dreadlocks), one with lighter hair[1]
Eye colour
Dark[1]
Skin colour
Dark colours with blackened parts[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Three Broomsticks Inn[1]
[Source]
Shrunken Head: "I say! No underage wizards allowed in today! Shut the damn door!"
Hermione: "So rude."
Ron: "Thick heads."
— Hermione and Ron to the talking Shrunken Heads guarding Three Broomsticks Inn in 1993[src]
These Shrunken heads hung in the entrance of the Three Broomsticks Inn in Hogsmeade.[1]
During the 1993–1994 school year, they stopped Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger from entering the pub during a Hogsmeade weekend visit as no underage wizards were allowed in that day. Harry Potter, however, was able to slip past them under his Invisibility Cloak.[1]
Behind the scenes
The talking shrunken heads were additional characters created for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, never appearing in the Harry Potter books nor in previous or subsequent film adaptations. However, it was well-received, in the Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban DVD Special Feature: Interview with J. K. Rowling and Alfonso Cuarón, J.K. Rowling did endorse the addition. Rowling had said she wished she thought of the idea, and if she had the ability, would shrink her own head temporarily to scare away unwanted visitors and tax collectors, who would likely flee from her in horror.
The film's addition is presumably why in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Rowling decided to write that Vincent Crabbe got a shrunken head confiscated by Filch.
The shrunken heads were voiced by Brian Bowles and Peter Serafinowicz in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. Bowles also played the a headless ghost in the same film.[citation needed]
In the DS version of LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4, they are replaced by a wizard guarding the Three Broomsticks Inn.
The middle shrunken head bears a slight resemblance to Dre Head.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) (First appearance)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) - Chapter 16 (The Marauders Map)
This article about a specific character is a stub. You can help by expanding it.