"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Talbott Winger's mother
Biographical information
Died
Between 1978[1] and 1981
Marital status
Married
Nationality
British
Title(s)
Healer
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Relationship information
Family members
Husband †
Talbott Winger (son)
Romances
Husband †
Magical characteristics
Animagus
White Swan[2]
Affiliation
Occupation
Healer
Loyalty
Winger family
St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries
[Source]
Talbott Winger's mother was a witch who opposed Lord Voldemort during the First Wizarding War, though neither she nor Talbott's father joined any defence organisation.
Contents
1 Biography
2 Personality and traits
3 Magical abilities and skills
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Biography
At some point in her life, she trained to become Healer, and worked as one at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, a wizarding hospital in London. She was also an Animagus, and in preparation for an attack, taught her son how to become one.[2]
She grew pumpkins in her garden.[3]
She and her husband were vehemently opposed to the Dark Wizard Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters reign of terror across Great Britain, although she and her husband for some reason did not join the Order of the Phoenix. One day, she and Talbott's father were murdered by Death Eaters, though their son managed to escape, due to Animagus ability to transform into an Eagle at will, allowing him to fly away to safety.[2]
In the 1986–1987 school year, Barnaby Lee made up the claim that Talbott's mother was a Mermaid.[4]
Personality and traits
She was evidently a mothering and kind soul, as shown by her work as a Healer, and by nurturing upbringing of her son. She evidently loved and cared about her son Talbott immensely and his welfare, as she taught her son to become an Animagus, in order to help him escape danger should he have needed to, an ability which saved her son's life. She was also clearly a very powerful and accomplished witch in her own right, as shown by her career path and her very remarkable ability to have become an Animagus.
Magical abilities and skills
Healing magic: As a professional Healer employed at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, she would have been an expert in the art of medical magic, including with healing spells, healing potions and other magical remedies.
Transfiguration: Talbott's mother was remarkably skilled in Self-Transfiguration that she was able to become an Animagus. She could transform into a White Swan at will.[2] In addition, she would have received at least an "Exceeds Expectations" or an "Outstanding" in this subject at both O.W.L. and N.E.W.T. level, as it is a compulsory requirement for Healer training.[5]
Potions: For her career, she would have been very skilled and knowledgeable in the brewing of various healing potions. She would have received either an "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding" at both O.W.L. and N.E.W.T. level in the subject, as is the requirement for all Healers.[5] She would have also successfully brewed the Animagus potion in order to complete her Animagus training, a potion known for being very time-consuming and complex, showing her to have been highly proficient in the art of potion-making.
Herbology: As part of her job, she believed in using fresh herbal ingredients for healing, so she kept a garden in her home of magical and mundane plants. It also influenced Talbott to be interested in the subject at Hogwarts. She would have received either an "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding in this subject at both N.E.W.T and O.W.L. level, as it is a compulsory requirement for Healer training.[5]
Charms: As a Healer, she would have achieved either an "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding" at both O.W.L. and N.E.W.T. level in this subject, as it is a compulsory requirement for Healer training.[5]
Defence Against the Dark Arts: She would received either an "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding" at both O.W.L. and N.E.W.T. level in this subject, as it is a compulsory subject requirement for all Healers.[5] She would have been proficient with medicating or curing health conditions and injuries caused by dark magic, such as by using counter-curses.
Appearances
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "Birds Of A Feather" Achievement - Part 3, Side Quest "Keeping an Eagle Eye Out" - Talbott mentioned that his father snuck a poem he wrote in a newspaper when he was six years old. As Talbott was born in 1972 or 1973, the earliest he could have turned six was 1978. As such, Talbott's father was still alive in 1978. As both of Talbott's parents died in the same attack, she was also alive in 1978.
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "Become an Animagus" Achievement - Part 3, Side Quest "Animagus Lessons" (info only revealed should the player choose to participate this time-limited Side Quest, and reach a specific stage before the task ended.)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Garden Date with Talbott
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "Become an Animagus" Achievement - Part 1, Side Quest "Become an Animagus!"
↑
5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 29 (Careers Advice)
Animagi
Before registration system
Falco Aesalon (Falcon) · Cliodna (Sea Bird) · Morgan le Fay (Bird) · Morrigan (Crow)
Registered
Minerva McGonagall (Cat) · Adrian Tutley (Gerbil) · Talbott Winger's mother (White Swan) · Unidentified witch (Black cat) · Five unidentified individuals (Unknown)
Unregistered
Sirius Black (Black dog) · Olivier Kikkert (Frog) · Peter Pettigrew (Rat) · James Potter (Stag) · Rita Skeeter (Beetle) · Talbott Winger (Eagle)
Unknown registry status
Bly (Lemur) · Jacob's sibling (Brown dog, Black and white cat or Eagle) · Lottie Turner's father (Butterfly)
Fictional Animagi
Babbitty Rabbity (Rabbit)
St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries
Founder Mungo Bonham
St Mungo's Admissions Department · Poisoning Department · Janus Thickey Ward · 'Dangerous' Dai Llewellyn Ward: Serious Bites · Purge and Dowse, Ltd
Employees
Positions Healer · Mediwizard · Trainee Healer · Welcome Witch · Entrance dummy
Healers Omar Abasi · Dilys Derwent · Lancelot · Rutherford Poke · Augustus Pye · Hippocrates Smethwyck · Helbert Spleen · Miriam Strout · Talbott Winger's mother
Patients
Katie Bell · Herbert Chorley · John Dawlish · Gordon Horton · Minerva McGonagall · Montgomery · Laura Thorn · Nymphadora Tonks · Arthur Weasley · Grubby-looking St Mungo's patient · Bitten St Mungo's patient · Winged St Mungo's patient · Unidentified St Mungo's patient · Unidentified werewolf
Long-term residents Agnes · Alice Longbottom · Frank Longbottom · Gilderoy Lockhart · Broderick Bode (deceased)