"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Trading Card Shop shopkeeper
Biographical information
Born
Before 1974 (most likely)
Nationality
British
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Hair colour
White
Eye colour
Green
Skin colour
Light
Affiliation
Occupation
Shopkeeper
Loyalty
Trading Card Shop
[Source]
Derek: "Also, there are new card combinations to use when you're in a tight spot."
Shopkeeper: "Could use some new combos. I still remember the Confuse Lunch combination. Worst card combo ever."
— An exchange between Derek, the shopkeeper, and Harry Potter[src]
This individual was a British wizard who ran the Trading Card Shop in Diagon Alley, in the early 1990s.
In the summer of 1992, he and Derek had a brief conversation with Harry Potter regarding the new card combinations that had been put into circulation that summer.[1]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game)
Notes and references
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) - GBC version

London's Wizarding Quarter
England, Great Britain
Carkitt Market - Diagon Alley - Horizont Alley - Knockturn Alley
Diagon Alley
Shops
2nd Hand Brooms · Amanuensis Quills · Broomstix · Broom Brakes Service · Broom Shop · Cauldron Workshop · Cranville Quincey's Magical Junkshop · Fine Enchanting Cauldrons · Floo-Pow · Florist's stall · Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop · J. Pippin's Potions · Jimmy Kiddell's Wonderful Wands · The Junk Shop · Madam Primpernelle's Beautifying Potions · Mr Mulpepper's Apothecary · Obscurus Books · Ollivanders · Rosa Lee Teabag · Scribbulus Writing Implements · Second-Hand Bookshop · Second-Hand Robes · Slug & Jiggers Apothecary · Sugarplum's Sweets Shop · Surgical and Dental Operator · Twilfitt and Tattings · Wand Showroom · Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes · Whizz Hard Books
Other services
Brews and Stews · Daily Prophet's main office · Diagon Alley stalls · GalloLoans · Gringotts Wizarding Bank · The Ministry Press · Peter Boat · TerrorTours
Locations
1 Diagon Alley · 18a Diagon Alley · 129b Diagon Alley · 275 Diagon Alley · 343 Diagon Alley South · 59 Diagon Alley · 92 Diagon Alley · 93 Diagon Alley · 94 Diagon Alley
Known residents and shop employees
Archibald Bennett · Broom Shop shopkeeper · Clutterbuck Crispe · Cranville Quincey · Daily Prophet personnel · Edwin Avarus · Fred Weasley (deceased) · Garrick Ollivander · George Weasley · Healer · Jimmy Kiddell · J. Pippin · Madam Primpernelle · Manager of Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop · Mulpepper · Podric Batworthy · Ronald Weasley · Shimmy Hardoteer · Sugarplum · Unidentified florist in Diagon Alley · Verity · Villanelle