Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells & Harry Potter: Wizards Unite.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
"Then he waved the wand once, and the letters of his name rearranged themselves..."
This page is being considered for renaming to Trolley Witch.
Reason: See talk page.
If you disagree with this proposal, please explain why at Category talk:Candidates for renaming.
"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Trolley witch
Biographical information
Born
Before 1830[1]
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Also known as
Honeydukes Express lady[3]
Physical information
Species
Human[4]
Gender
Female[4]
Hair colour
Grey[3]
Eye colour
Dark[3]
Skin colour
White[3]
Magical characteristics
Boggart
Lord Voldemort[5]
Patronus
Non-corporeal[5]
Affiliation
Occupation
Honeydukes Express trolley operator[4]
Loyalty
Hogwarts Express[4]
Albus Dumbledore[6]
[Source]
"Anything off the cart, dears?"
— The lady advertising the trolley[src]
The Trolley witch (b. before 1830) was an elderly witch who was one of the two known crew members aboard the Hogwarts Express on Platform Nine and Three-Quarters,[4][7] She came around during the middle of the journey, pushing the "Honeydukes Express" cart, with lots of confectionery goods to purchase. She also oversaw the Buffet Car during the voyage.[8]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Personality and traits
3 Magical abilities and skills
4 Behind the scenes
5 Appearances
6 Notes and references
Biography
"Anything sweet for you, dear?"
— Trolley lady to Harry Potter[src]
She was hired around 1830 by Ottaline Gambol. She claimed to have made around six million Pumpkin Pasties and revealed to Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy that she secretly made them into mini grenades. She then threw one to prove it. She also claimed to have done something to Chocolate Frog Cards too. She stated that people bought her food but never really noticed her and that she couldn't recall the last time someone asked her name, something which she herself had even forgotten.[1]
In 1991, she sold many sweets to Harry Potter and Ronald Weasley aboard the Hogwarts Express, as they travelled on the train for the first time to Hogwarts.[4]
In 1993, she provided Cauldron Cakes to Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger. When they tried and failed to wake Professor Remus Lupin, noting that he looked like he could do with food, she kindly noted that she would be up front with the conductor if Lupin were to wake.[7]
In 1997, she attended the Albus Dumbledore's funeral.[6]
In 2019, she was whisked away by The Calamity just shortly prior to the Hogwarts Express's scheduled departure on 1 September. Headmistress Minerva McGonagall quickly solicited the assistance of a reputable member of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force that Hermione Granger had recommended, who successfully returned her in time for the new school year.[9]
In 2020, she apprehended Albus and Scorpius when they tried to get off the Hogwarts Express, stating that others such as Sirius Black and his cronies, and Fred and George Weasley had tried before but failed. She told them that the train does not take too kindly to students trying to get off it before it reaches its destination, and Transfigured her hands into claws to scare them. She then asked them to go back to their seats. When the two nevertheless escaped, she was highly embarrassed.[1]
Personality and traits
The trolley witch tries to prevent the escape of Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy
"Don’t worry, dear, If he’s hungry when he wakes, I’ll be up front with the driver."
— The witch's kind demeanour[src]
The witch was elderly and slightly hunchback. She was however, a solemn but kind person, treating and serving all the passengers of the Hogwarts Express equally and kindly.[4] However, she would become upset when students would try to get off the train and would turn more sinister, Transfiguring her hands into claws to scare them, in order for them to sit back in their seats, showing she was fiercely devoted to upholding the rules of the train.[1]
Magical abilities and skills
Transfiguration: She was able to Transfigure her hands into claws to scare Hogwarts students who tried to leave the train.[1] Human Transfiguration is a very difficult branch of Transfiguration, implying she was highly accomplished in this notably complex branch of magic.
Charms: She was able to conjure a non-corporeal Patronus,[5] a mark of superior magical talent and skill given the immense difficulty of performing such an advanced protective charm.
Behind the scenes
The food trolley lady as seen in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
The food trolley lady was portrayed in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone by Jean Southern, while in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, she was portrayed by the late Margery Mason. It may be possible, however, in the film, that the two trolley witches could be two entirely separate individuals.
In the level "News From Azkaban" in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4, some students are standing in front of carriage doors on the train, and one must levitate sweets from the trolley to the students' hands, for the doors to open.[5]
Because of the Trolley witch's behaviour in The Cursed Child, some have believed her to be some sort of magical incarnation or an illusion of the Hogwarts Express itself rather than being an actual living witch.
Aged around 161 at the time of her first appearance and 190 in The Cursed Child, she was an unusually old witch.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 11 images related to Trolley witch.
The Trolley Witch as a LEGO minifigure
The Trolley Witch in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (GBC version only)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (GBA version only)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child (play)
Pottermore
Wizarding World
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Shadow only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Act One, Scene Eleven
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) - Chapter 5 (The Triwizard Tournament)
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 6 (The Journey from Platform Nine and Three-Quarters)
↑
5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
↑
6.0 6.1 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 30 (The White Tomb)
↑
7.0 7.1 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Chapter 5 (The Dementor)
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) - GBA version
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite "Brilliant Event: Back to Hogwarts"