"He wasn't in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable Magical Names of Our Time [...]"
The subject of this article does not meet our notability standards. Although it is based on canonical/valid information, it was suggested it does not merit its own article and, as such, is to be either deleted or merged with similar articles.
If you disagree with either of these actions, please explain why at Category talk:Non-notable articles or improve the page and remove this tag.
Remember to check what links here and the page history before deleting.
"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Ministry Guards
Biographical information
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood[1]
Nationality
British
Physical information
Species
Humans
Gender
Males
Skin colour
White
Affiliation
Occupation
Ministry Guards
Loyalty
British Ministry of Magic
Ministry Police
Muggle-Born Registration Commission
[Source]
These Ministry Guards were British wizards who guarded the Muggle-Born Registration Commission alongside Corban Yaxley and others in 1997.
Biography
In 1997, these two Ministry Guard were stationed to guard the Muggle-Born Registration Commission courtroom during the trial of Mary Cattermole, overlooked by both Dolores Umbridge and Corban Yaxley. However, Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger, both disguised using Polyjuice Potion as Albert Runcorn, Reginald Cattermole and Mafalda Hopkirk respectively, hijacked and stopped the corrupt trial, and stunned these guards, along with Umbridge and Yaxley with offensive duelling spells, and rescued Mary Cattermole from being given a false and wrongful sentence by Umbridge.[2][3]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (Possible appearance)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑ As they were employed by the Pure-blood supremacist Muggle-Born Registration Commission, they could not have been Muggle-borns.
↑ LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1