"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Unidentified balding Ministry of Magic employee
Biographical information
Born
before 1980
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood (most likely)[1]
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Affiliation
Occupation
Ministry of Magic worker
Loyalty
Ministry of Magic
[Source]
Balding wizard: "What's up, Albert?"
Harry Potter (as Albert Runcorn): "This lot need to leave before you seal the exits"
Balding wizard: "We've been told to seal all exits and not let anyone –"
Harry Potter (as Albert Runcorn): "Are you contradicting me? Would you like me to have your family tree examined, like I had Dirk Cresswell's?"
Balding wizard: "Sorry! I didn't mean nothing, Albert, but I thought… I thought they were in for questioning and…"
Harry Potter (as Albert Runcorn): "Their blood is pure. Purer than many of yours, I daresay. Off you go"
— This wizard tries to stop "Albert Runcorn" (actually Harry Potter in disguise) and Muggle-borns in for questioning during the Infiltration of the Ministry of Magic.[src]
This individual was a wizard and a Ministry of Magic worker in the late-1990s.[2]
Biography
On the morning of 2 September, 1997, this wizard ran into "Albert Runcorn" (actually Harry Potter in disguise) while entering the Ministry headquarters through the fireplaces in the Atrium. At first he seemed annoyed, but he excused himself and hurried away nervously when he noticed who he had bumped into.[2]
Later, when there were intruders detected in the Ministry, this wizard was sent to the Atrium in order to seal all exits and stop everyone from leaving. When "Albert Runcorn" (actually Harry Potter), "Mafalda Hopkirk" (Hermione Granger) and "Reginald Cattermole" (Ronald Weasley) were leading Muggle-borns in for questioning out to freedom, the wizard seemed aprehensive as to let them pass, but was intimidated by "Runcorn"'s threats and let them pass as Yaxley emerged from one of the lifts. Harry, impersonating Runcorn, then told Yaxley that the balding wizard was trying to get the Muggle-borns out of the Ministry and punched him sending him flying through the air just before he jumped into one of the fireplaces and left the Ministry.[3]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑ As he was working at the Ministry during Voldemort's rule, it is higly unlikely he was Muggle-born.
↑
2.0 2.1 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 12 (Magic is Might)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 13 (The Muggle-Born Registration Commission)
Ministry of Magic Personnel
Unknown Departments
Bernie · Bletchley · Pamphlet maker · Cho Chang's mother · Stamford Jorkins · Official No. 39423 · Meeting assigner · Lucius Malfoy · Wakanda · Overweight wizard · Selwyn · Albert Runcorn · Wizard at the 1994 Quidditch World Cup · Balding wizard · Ismelda Murk's sister · Angelica Cole · Squeaky-voiced Ministry of Magic employee · Cassandra Vole's father · Lucas Sparrowvale