Unidentified executioner
Biographical information
Born
United States of America[1]
Nationality
American[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Hair colour
Dark[2]
Skin colour
Light[2]
Magical characteristics
Wand
Unknown length, wood and core[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Executioner at the Magical Congress of the United States of America[1]
Loyalty
Magical Congress of the United States of America[1]
[Source]
This individual was an American wizard who worked as an Executioner for Magical Congress in 1926.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
Along with Bernadette and another witch, he assisted in the execution of Newton Scamander and Porpentina Goldstein after being sentenced to Death by Gellert Grindelwald (disguised as Percival Graves) for violating the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy. The execution was stopped when Newt and Tina were rescued by a Swooping Evil.[1]
During the fight, Newt knocked him out by whacking him in the face with his (Newt's) handcuffs.[1]
Behind the scenes
The Executioner was portrayed by Cristian Solimeno in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.
He was the only of the three Executioners not to be mentioned in the original screenplay.
Appearances
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them: The Original Screenplay (First appearance)
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them: The Original Screenplay
↑
2.0 2.1 Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film)
Magical Congress of the United States of America
Presidents
Josiah Jackson (1693-?) · Charity Wilkinson · Thornton Harkaway (c. 1760) · Able Fleming · Elizabeth McGilliguddy (c. 1777) · Emily Rappaport (c. 1790) · Seraphina Picquery (1920-1928) · Samuel G. Quahog (c. 2014)
Aurors
Abraham Potter · Achilles Tolliver · Berthilde Roche · Carlos Lopez · Cas Carneirus · Cormac O'Brien · E. A. Limus · Gondulphus Graves · Helmut Weiss · M. L. Minus · M. P. Carneirus · Mary Jauncey · Mungo MacDuff · Percival Graves · Porpentina Goldstein · Robert Grimsditch · Saranna Wilkinson · Theodard Fontaine · Wilhelm Fischer · Unidentified MACUSA Aurors
Other positions
Apparition Examiner · Auror Commissioner · Captain of Aurors · Chief Auror · Chief of Staff · Director of Magical Security · Executioner · Federal Identity Commissioner · Federal Wand Permit Officer · Keeper of Treasure and Dragots · Obliviator ·Surveillor of Activity
Other employees
Abernathy · Albert Perschky · Aristotle Twelvetrees · Bernadette · Beryl · Cecily · E. A. Limus · F. Wakefield · Irene Kneedander · J. Ward · L. O'Sullivan · Magali Crowe · Paloma Proudfoot · Queenie Goldstein · Red · Ruby · Sam · Unidentified executioner (I) · Unidentified executioner (II) · Unidentified guide · Y. Blishen
Departments
Body for Protection of Magical Species · Department of Aurors · Department of Magical Law Enforcement · Department of No-Maj Misinformation · Department of Unidentifiable Magical Objects · Department for Confiscated Items · Federal Bureau of Covert Vigilance and No-Maj Obliviation · MACUSA Communications Department · MACUSA Investigation Department · MACUSA Surveillance Wizarding Resources Department · Magical Cleaning Department · Major Investigation Department · Office for Magic Relations and Education · US Auror Divisions · Wand Permit Department · Wizarding Resources Department
Locations
Death Cell · Great Meeting Chamber · Lobby · No-Maj Fraternisation sub-division · Pentagram Office · Percival Graves' office · Register Office · Typing Pool · Wand Permit Office · Young Wizards Daycare Center