Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Unidentified hummingbird in bell jar
Biographical information
Born
Is repeatedly born, until release in 1996[1]
Died
Repeatedly dies, until release in 1996[1]
Physical information
Species
Hummingbird[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Department of Mysteries[1]
[Source]
"Drifting along in the sparkling current inside was a tiny, jewel-bright egg. As it rose in the jar it cracked open and a hummingbird emerged, which was carried to the very top of the jar, but as it fell on the draft, its feathers became bedraggled and damp again, and by the time it had been borne back to the bottom of the jar, it had been enclosed once more in its egg."
— The bird in the bell jar[src]
This hummingbird was used in Department of Mysteries to research life and death in the Time Room. It lived in a bell jar, which allowed it to become an egg, a chick, an adult, and then start life over again.[1] During the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the bird was released and an unidentified Death Eater replaced it.[2]
In September 2020, during the Calamity, this hummingbird appeared as a Foundable. Volunteer members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force were able to return to his original time.[3]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First appearance)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 34 (The Department of Mysteries)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 35 (Beyond the Veil)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite, Brilliant Event: Battle of the Department of Mysteries