"He wasn't in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable Magical Names of Our Time [...]"
The subject of this article does not meet our notability standards. Although it is based on canonical/valid information, it was suggested it does not merit its own article and, as such, is to be either deleted or merged with similar articles.
If you disagree with either of these actions, please explain why at Category talk:Non-notable articles or improve the page and remove this tag.
Remember to check what links here and the page history before deleting.
"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Unidentified Death Eater
Biographical information
Died
2 May 1998
Hogwarts Castle
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Hair colour
Black
Eye colour
Grey
Skin colour
Light brown
Magical characteristics
Patronus
None[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Death Eaters
Lord Voldemort
[Source]
This Dark Wizard (d. 2 May 1998) was a Death Eater of Lord Voldemort who fought in the Second Wizarding War. He later fought in the Battle of Hogwarts. He survived the first round, and after Harry sacrificed himself to Lord Voldemort in the Forbidden Forest, he guarded the captured Rubeus Hagrid back to the castle along with other Death Eaters, while Hagrid carried Harry's believed dead body. After Harry revealed that he was actually alive, the second round of the battle began. This Death Eater was then killed during the final stages of the battle.[2]
Behind the scenes
He was portrayed by Courtney Fearon in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (First appearance)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 (Appears as a generic Death Eater)
Notes and references
↑ J.K. Rowling and the Live Chat, Bloomsbury.com, July 30, 2007
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2