"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Unidentified five Animagi
Physical information
Species
Human
Magical characteristics
Animagus
Unknown
[Source]
These five people were wizards or witches (or both) who were known to be registered Animagi; however their animal forms are unknown. Hermione Granger referred to them by saying that there were only seven registered Animagi in the 20th century. Since the Marauders trio (Prongs, Padfoot and Wormtail) were unregistered, it is at least conceivable that others may have effected this transformation without registering.[1]
Behind the scenes
An unidentified Animagus appears in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4. She took the form of a black cat. As she changed shape in a public location, it is likely she was registered.[2]
It is possible that Jacob's sibling is one of them, as in the Animagus achievement quest in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, the player gets to choose whether or not they want to register.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (Mentioned only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Notes and references
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
↑ LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Animagi
Before registration system
Falco Aesalon (Falcon) · Cliodna (Sea Bird) · Morgan le Fay (Bird) · Morrigan (Crow)
Registered
Minerva McGonagall (Cat) · Adrian Tutley (Gerbil) · Talbott Winger's mother (White Swan) · Unidentified witch (Black cat) · Five unidentified individuals (Unknown)
Unregistered
Sirius Black (Black dog) · Olivier Kikkert (Frog) · Peter Pettigrew (Rat) · James Potter (Stag) · Rita Skeeter (Beetle) · Talbott Winger (Eagle)
Unknown registry status
Bly (Lemur) · Jacob's sibling (Brown dog, Black and white cat or Eagle) · Lottie Turner's father (Butterfly)
Fictional Animagi
Babbitty Rabbity (Rabbit)