"Is this all real? Or has this been happening inside my head?"
The topic of this article is of a real-life subject that has been mentioned "in-universe" in a canon source. The Harry Potter Wiki is written from the perspective that all information presented in canon is true (e.g., Hogwarts really existed), and, as such, details contained in this article may differ from real world facts.
Anne Boleyn
Biographical information
Born
1501/1507
Norfolk, England, Great Britain
Died
19 May 1536 (aged 29-35)
London, England, Great Britain
Blood status
Squib (possibly)
Marital status
Married (28th May 1533 - 17th May 1536)
Divorced (17th - 19th May 1536)
Title(s)
Lady Anne Boleyn
Marquess of Pembroke
Queen Consort of England
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Hair colour
Dark
Eye colour
Dark
Skin colour
Pale
Relationship information
Family members
King Henry VIII (ex-husband)
Queen Elizabeth I (daughter)
Queen Mary I (ex-stepdaughter)
King Henry VII (ex-father-in-law)
William I (ancestor)
Queen Elizabeth II (distant relative)
House of Tudor
Romances
King Henry VIII (ex-husband)
Affiliation
Loyalty
House of Tudor
England
[Source]
Anne Boleyn (c. 1501 – 19 May 1536) was Queen consort of England between 1533 and 1536, as the second wife of the notorious King Henry VIII, and mother to Queen Elizabeth I of England.[1]
Boleyn was accused by Muggles of being a witch.[2] There may have been a popular wizarding theory that she was instead a Squib.[2] However, Anne's true blood status is unknown.
If Boleyn was indeed a Squib, it suggests her siblings could be magical. Notable direct descendants of Anne's sister Mary are Queen Elizabeth II and Diana, Princess of Wales. This could imply that they have magical blood along with descendants including Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex.
A portrait of a woman resembling Anne hung in the Grand Staircase, near the second-floor landing, at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.[3]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film) (Appears in portrait(s))
J. K. Rowling's official site (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter Limited Edition (Appears in portrait(s))
Harry Potter: The Exhibition (Appears in portrait(s))
Notes and references
↑ "Anne Boleyn" on Wikipedia
↑
2.0 2.1 Fifth question of the Third W.O.M.B.A.T. at J. K. Rowling's official site.
↑ Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film) (see this image)
Second-floor of Hogwarts Castle
Classrooms
Class 31
Corridors
Gargoyle Corridor · Second-floor corridor
Halls and rooms
Potions storeroom · Second-floor arcade · Second-floor foyer · Second-floor hall · Second-floor secret storeroom · Moaning Myrtle's Bathroom
Offices
Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher's office
Other locations
No entry due to flooding - Mr Filch
Portraits, statues and other artwork
Anne Boleyn · Bust of a medieval wizard · Basil Fronsac · Map of Argyllshire · Painting of apples · Temeritus Shanks ·Wizarding family
Staircases
Staircase to the ground-floor · Staircase between the first and second-floor corridors · Staircase to the library corridor · Staircase to the third-floor