"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Antioch Peverell's killer
Physical information
Species
Human[1][2]
Gender
Male[1][2]
Magical characteristics
Wand
Unknown length, wood and core
Elder, Thestral tail hair core[1][2]
[Source]
"The thief took the wand and for good measure, slit the oldest brother's throat. And so Death took the first brother for his own."
— Description of the first theft of the Elder Wand[src]
This wizard (fl. between 1214 and 1291) was present in a pub when Antioch Peverell boasted of having an unbeatable wand. He slit Antioch's throat during the night and stole the wand from him.[1][2]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
In the 13th century, this wizard was at an inn when Antioch Peverell came in after killing a wizard he had once quarrelled with. Peverell began to drink wine and brag about his his new indestructible wand had granted him victory over his enemy, which the unknown wizard overheard.[1][2]
Envious of the wand's power the wizard waited until Peverell, drunk with wine, went to sleep. Slipping into his room, the wizard stole the wand and slit Peverell's throat to make sure he wasn't followed. The wizard then slipped into the night with his new powerful wand. It's unknown what happened to this wizard afterwards, though he likely suffered the same fate as Antioch and was killed by another for the possession of the Elder Wand.[1][2]
Behind the scenes
The identity of this wizard is unknown, as is the wizard who presumably killed him.
In the consoles versions of the video game adaption of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, the killer used the Killing Curse instead of a knife to murder Antioch.
In LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7, he is omitted. Instead, his victim Antioch Peverell got grabbed by Death but what happened to the Elder Wand or who owned it before Gregorovitch is unknown.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 5 images related to Antioch Peverell's killer.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (First appearance) (Appears in flashback(s))
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Appears in flashback(s))
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 21 (The Tale of the Three Brothers)
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "The Tale of the Three Brothers"
Preceded by:
Antioch Peverell Master of the Elder Wand
Mid-thirteenth century Succeeded by:
Unknown, eventually Emeric the Evil
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
By Beedle the Bard
Stories
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump · The Fountain of Fair Fortune · The Warlock's Hairy Heart · The Tale of the Three Brothers · The Wizard and the Hopping Pot
Characters
Altheda · Amata · Amata's lover · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's enemy · Antioch Peverell's killer · Asha · Babbitty · Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Cadmus Peverell · Cadmus Peverell's fiancée · Captain of the Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Charlatan · Death · Evil Sorcerer · Gigantic white worm · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · King · Kinsfolk · Maiden · Old man · Old man's donkey · Old man's family · Peasant woman · Peasant woman's granddaughter · Sabre · Sir Luckless · Warlock · Warlock's family · The Warlock's friends · Wizard · Wizard's father · Young woman · Young woman's child
Objects
Altheda's potion · Altheda's wand · Cloak of Invisibility · Creepers · Crystal casket · Elder Wand · Enchanted garden · Fountain · Gold statue of Babbitty · Hairy Heart · The Hopping Pot · Never-ending hill · Poisonous toadstool · Poultice for warts · Resurrection Stone · Silver chalice
Known owners of the Deathly Hallows
Elder Wand
Death (Manufacturer) · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's killer · Emeric the Evil · Egbert the Egregious · Godelot · Hereward · Barnabas Deverill · Loxias · Arcus and/or Livius · Mykew Gregorovitch · Gellert Grindelwald · Albus Dumbledore · Draco Malfoy (Master Only) · Tom Riddle (Owner Only) · Harry Potter · (Interred)
Resurrection Stone
Death (Manufacturer) · Cadmus Peverell · Unidentified Gaunt · (Generations of Gaunts) · Corvinus Gaunt · Marvolo Gaunt · Morfin Gaunt · Tom Riddle · Albus Dumbledore · Harry Potter · (Lost)
Cloak of Invisibility
Death (Manufacturer) · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · Iolanthe Potter · Unidentified Potter · (Generations of Potters) · Henry Potter · Fleamont Potter · James Potter · Albus Dumbledore (Owner Only) · Harry Potter · James S. Potter · Albus Potter