Auror Commissioner was a position at the Magical Congress of the United States of America that presumably oversaw the work of American Aurors.
History
In 1926, the position was held by M. L. Minus.[1] His or her signature often appeared on wanted posters made by MACUSA as certification.[2]
Appearances
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned on a poster)
The Case of Beasts: Explore the Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (Mentioned on a poster)
Inside the Magic: The Making of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (Mentioned on a poster)
Notes and references
↑ The Case of Beasts: Explore the Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them - (see this image)
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) - (see this image)
Magical Congress of the United States of America
Presidents
Josiah Jackson (1693-?) · Charity Wilkinson · Thornton Harkaway (c. 1760) · Able Fleming · Elizabeth McGilliguddy (c. 1777) · Emily Rappaport (c. 1790) · Seraphina Picquery (1920-1928) · Samuel G. Quahog (c. 2014)
Aurors
Abraham Potter · Achilles Tolliver · Berthilde Roche · Carlos Lopez · Cas Carneirus · Cormac O'Brien · E. A. Limus · Gondulphus Graves · Helmut Weiss · M. L. Minus · M. P. Carneirus · Mary Jauncey · Mungo MacDuff · Percival Graves · Porpentina Goldstein · Robert Grimsditch · Saranna Wilkinson · Theodard Fontaine · Wilhelm Fischer · Unidentified MACUSA Aurors
Other positions
Apparition Examiner · Auror Commissioner · Captain of Aurors · Chief Auror · Chief of Staff · Director of Magical Security · Executioner · Federal Identity Commissioner · Federal Wand Permit Officer · Keeper of Treasure and Dragots · Obliviator ·Surveillor of Activity
Other employees
Abernathy · Albert Perschky · Aristotle Twelvetrees · Bernadette · Beryl · Cecily · E. A. Limus · F. Wakefield · Irene Kneedander · J. Ward · L. O'Sullivan · Magali Crowe · Paloma Proudfoot · Queenie Goldstein · Red · Ruby · Sam · Unidentified executioner (I) · Unidentified executioner (II) · Unidentified guide · Y. Blishen
Departments
Body for Protection of Magical Species · Department of Aurors · Department of Magical Law Enforcement · Department of No-Maj Misinformation · Department of Unidentifiable Magical Objects · Department for Confiscated Items · Federal Bureau of Covert Vigilance and No-Maj Obliviation · MACUSA Communications Department · MACUSA Investigation Department · MACUSA Surveillance Wizarding Resources Department · Magical Cleaning Department · Major Investigation Department · Office for Magic Relations and Education · US Auror Divisions · Wand Permit Department · Wizarding Resources Department
Locations
Death Cell · Great Meeting Chamber · Lobby · No-Maj Fraternisation sub-division · Pentagram Office · Percival Graves' office · Register Office · Typing Pool · Wand Permit Office · Young Wizards Daycare Center