"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
"Point me!"
This article is about the snake that Harry Potter spoke to. You may be looking for the species in general.
Boa constrictor at the zoo
Biographical information
Born
1991 or earlier
Physical information
Species
Boa constrictor[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Skin colour
Brown and glistening[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Harry Potter[1]
Zoo (formerly)[1]
Brazil[1]
[Source]
"Brazil, here I come. Thanksss, amigo."
— Boa constrictor to Harry Potter in Parseltongue[src]
This boa constrictor was a large male brown snake that lived at the Zoo. It escaped after the glass on its enclosure vanished.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Personality and traits
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Biography
Harry Potter talks to the snake
This snake was bred in captivity sometime before 1991 when it was on display. This changed in June 1991. After Dudley saw the snake and became uninterested, the snake came in contact with Harry Potter, a Parselmouth, who spoke to it. During the course of their conversation, he accidentally vanished the glass in front of its enclosure. The snake slithered free, leading Dudley to think it was after him. The freed boa briefly thanked Harry and told him that it was going to Brazil, the native range of its species. From there, the snake calmly slithered out of the reptile house.[1] It is unknown if it eventually made it to Brazil or that it was possibly re-captured and put back into captivity.
Personality and traits
The snake
Lonely and bored, the snake found it highly annoying to have zoo visitors tap on the tank's glass front every day. He had also always dreamed of living in Brazil. He also had a rather playful side, as he made a point of snapping at the heels of panicking Muggles as he left his former prison but without intent to hurt them.[1]
Interestingly, the snake seemed to be capable of reading; when Harry asked if it missed its family in Brazil, it pointed to a sign which read "RAISED IN CAPTIVITY".[1]
Behind the scenes
The boa constrictor depicted in the chapter art of the Japanese edition, illustrated by Dan Schlesinger
In both the book and the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, the snake winks at Harry. In real life, snakes are unable to wink, as they have no eyelids.
In the film, the boa constrictor was replaced by a Burmese python.
The boa constrictor was rumoured to actually be Nagini, but this has since been proven false, as Nagini is female, while the Snake at the Zoo was male. Also, Nagini is venomous while Boas (and the python from the film) are non-venomous, using Constriction to kill their prey. This has been confirmed by J. K. Rowling on Twitter.[2]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film) (Mentioned only)
Pottermore
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 2 (The Vanishing Glass)
↑ Noooo... I thought I'd shot that one down! The escaped boa constrictor in Philosopher's Stone wasn't Nagini. It was never Nagini. That's an incorrect but very persistent fan theory! - @jk_rowling on Twitter