Bozo
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Hair colour
Brown
Skin colour
White
Affiliation
Occupation
Cameraman for the Daily Prophet
Loyalty
Daily Prophet
[Source]
"A paunchy man, holding a large black camera that was smoking slightly, was watching Fleur out of the corner of his eye."
— Description[src]
Bozo was a photographer for the Daily Prophet. He appeared to be associated with Rita Skeeter.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 1992
1.2 Triwizard Tournament
2 Physical appearance
3 Etymology
4 Behind the scenes
5 Appearances
6 Notes and references
Biography
1992
"Out of the way, there. This is for the Daily Prophet."
— Bozo treats Ron Weasley inconsiderately in pursuit of the perfect shot[src]
Bozo[1] covered Gilderoy Lockhart's book-signing at Flourish and Blotts in 1992, and was so single-mindedly focused on getting a good shot at one point that he backed into Ronald Weasley, stepping on his foot as he snapped at him to get out of the way. When Lockhart saw that Harry Potter was in the crowd, he pulled Harry to the front and shook his hand, deliberately giving the photographer an opportunity to take pictures he felt would be "worth the front page".[2]
Triwizard Tournament
Bozo was present at the wand weighing ceremony preceding the 1994 Triwizard Tournament, accompanying Rita Skeeter to do a piece on the tournament for the Prophet. He appeared to be entranced by Fleur Delacour, as he attempted to bring her into greater prominence of the group shots he was taking, and was watching her out of the corner of his eye during the ceremony.[3]
Later that school year, Bozo accompanied Rita on a visit to the Three Broomsticks Inn. While there, Rita conferred with Bozo on the possibility of spinning a story out of Ludovic Bagman being pursued by a group of goblins.[4]
Physical appearance
The photographer in 1992
Bozo was described as "paunchy".[3]
Etymology
A bozo is a foolish or incompetent person.[5]
The Tagalog word boso which means "to maliciously watch/peek at somebody through a hole or slit".[6]
Bozo is also the name of an iconic American clown, and is at times considered a generic term for a clown.
Behind the scenes
Bozo was portrayed by Peter O'Farrell in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and Robert Wilfort in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
The photographer from Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets is not identified as the same wizard as Bozo in the books. Pottermore, however, confirms them to be the same character by giving them a singular entry that describes them being the same person.
In the second novel as well as the GBA version of the video game, Bozo was shown to have a rude personality, but in the film adaptation, he appears to have good manners.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 4 images related to Bozo.
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (First identified as Bozo)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑ Pottermore - Daily Prophet Photographer
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 4 (At Flourish and Blotts)
↑ 3.0 3.1 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 18 (The Weighing of the Wands)
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 24 (Rita Skeeter's Scoop)
↑ Bozo on the Merriam-Webster dictionary
↑ Filipino - English definition of Boso
Daily Prophet
Evening Prophet · Sunday Prophet
Regular features Other features
Index (page 01)
Good News (page 02)
Bad News (page 02)
Forecast (page 02)
Potions (page 03)
Magic Lottery (page 04)
E. Limus (page 05)
Astro News (page 06)
Spells (page 07)
International (page 08)
Abracadabra (page 08)
Hocus-Pocus (page 08)
Politics (page 09)
Ministry of Magic Affairs (page 09)
Sports (page 09)
Games (page 09)
Magic News (page 10)
Comment (page 10)
Arts & Warts (page 11)
Tricks & Trucks (page 11)
Opinion (page 12)
Puzzles (page 12)
Kids Corner (page 12)
Black Magic (page 13)
Local News (page 20)
Pink Magic (page 13)
Tragedies (page 15)
Jobs (page 15)
Showizbiz (page 15)
Health (page 16)
Fitness (page 16)
Ask D. Shaman (page 16)
Obituaries (page 17)
Classified (page 18)
Crossword (page 18)
Blablabla (page 19)
Dr. Medusa (page 20)
Magical Symbols Game
Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw
Me, Myself, and I
Weekly zoological column
Bestseller List

List of articles
Known personnel
Editor-in-chief: Barnabas Cuffe
Security Editor: R. Amorim
Reporters: A. Fenetre · Andy Smudgley · Betty Braithwaite · Chief sports writer · E. Limaria · E. Limus · Emma Squiggle · L. Limuria · Kit Gerrard · Miras Phlaras · M. Amerinus · M. Carneirus · R. Almeidas · Rita Skeeter · Talbott Winger's father
Columnists: D. Shaman · E. Limus · Dempster Wiggleswade · Helbert Spleen · Grizel Hurtz · Limunus · Dr Medusa · Winkus Oddpick · Zamira Gulch
Correspondents: Ginny Potter · Rita Skeeter
Photographers: Adrian · Bozo
Newspaper vendors: Paper-owls · Ministry of Magic newspaper vendor
Chief Consulting Magizoologist: Rolf Scamander
 