Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
Captain of Aurors was a position at the Magical Congress of the United States of America that presumably played a part in overseeing the work of American Aurors.
Contents
1 History
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
History
In 1926, the position was held by M. P. Carneirus.[1] Their signature often appeared on wanted posters made by MACUSA as certification.[2]
In 2020s, the position was held by Cas Carneirus.[3]
Behind the scenes
In most U.S. police departments, the ranks of captain are usually held by veterans with extensive experience who is often the officer in charge of a precinct. Seen as how MACUSA ranked theirs in a similar fashion, it can be assumed the Captain has a position of leadership, but not necessarily is the officer in charge. This is supported by how the commander (sometimes used instead of 'inspector' outrank the captains).
It is possible that the Captain is in charge of a specific division, but still is answerable to the Department of Aurors, which presumably is headed by the Auror Commissioner.
Appearances
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (First mentioned)
The Case of Beasts: Explore the Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (Mentioned on a poster)
Inside the Magic: The Making of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (Mentioned on a poster)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑ The Case of Beasts: Explore the Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them - (see this image)
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) - (see this image)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Magical Congress of the United States of America
Presidents
Josiah Jackson (1693-?) · Charity Wilkinson · Thornton Harkaway (c. 1760) · Able Fleming · Elizabeth McGilliguddy (c. 1777) · Emily Rappaport (c. 1790) · Seraphina Picquery (1920-1928) · Samuel G. Quahog (c. 2014)
Aurors
Abraham Potter · Achilles Tolliver · Berthilde Roche · Carlos Lopez · Cas Carneirus · Cormac O'Brien · E. A. Limus · Gondulphus Graves · Helmut Weiss · M. L. Minus · M. P. Carneirus · Mary Jauncey · Mungo MacDuff · Percival Graves · Porpentina Goldstein · Robert Grimsditch · Saranna Wilkinson · Theodard Fontaine · Wilhelm Fischer · Unidentified MACUSA Aurors
Other positions
Apparition Examiner · Auror Commissioner · Captain of Aurors · Chief Auror · Chief of Staff · Director of Magical Security · Executioner · Federal Identity Commissioner · Federal Wand Permit Officer · Keeper of Treasure and Dragots · Obliviator ·Surveillor of Activity
Other employees
Abernathy · Albert Perschky · Aristotle Twelvetrees · Bernadette · Beryl · Cecily · E. A. Limus · F. Wakefield · Irene Kneedander · J. Ward · L. O'Sullivan · Magali Crowe · Paloma Proudfoot · Queenie Goldstein · Red · Ruby · Sam · Unidentified executioner (I) · Unidentified executioner (II) · Unidentified guide · Y. Blishen
Departments
Body for Protection of Magical Species · Department of Aurors · Department of Magical Law Enforcement · Department of No-Maj Misinformation · Department of Unidentifiable Magical Objects · Department for Confiscated Items · Federal Bureau of Covert Vigilance and No-Maj Obliviation · MACUSA Communications Department · MACUSA Investigation Department · MACUSA Surveillance Wizarding Resources Department · Magical Cleaning Department · Major Investigation Department · Office for Magic Relations and Education · US Auror Divisions · Wand Permit Department · Wizarding Resources Department
Locations
Death Cell · Great Meeting Chamber · Lobby · No-Maj Fraternisation sub-division · Pentagram Office · Percival Graves' office · Register Office · Typing Pool · Wand Permit Office · Young Wizards Daycare Center