Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Harry Potter: Wizards Unite & Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Editing of this article by newly registered users is currently disabled.
Such users may discuss changes, or request unprotection.
Cedric Diggory
Biographical information
Born
Between 1 September and 30 October 1977[1]
Died
24 June, 1995[2] (aged 17)
Little Hangleton graveyard, England, Great Britain
Blood status
Pure-blood (possibly) or Half-blood[3]
Nationality
British or Irish[4]
Also known as
Ced (by Amos Diggory)[5]
Title(s)
Quidditch Captain[6]
Seeker[2]
Prefect[2]
Triwizard Champion[2]
Signature
Physical information
Species
Human[6]
Gender
Male[6]
Hair colour
Dark[7]
Eye colour
Grey[7][8]
Relationship information
Family members
Amos Diggory[2] (father)
Mrs Diggory[2] (mother)
Eldritch Diggory (possible relative)
Romances
Cho Chang
Magical characteristics
Boggart
Lord Voldemort[9]
Wand
12¼", Ash, Unicorn hair[2]
Affiliation
House
Hufflepuff[6]
Loyalty
Diggory family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry[2]
Hufflepuff
Hufflepuff Quidditch team[6]
Circle of Khanna[10]
Death Eaters (alternate timeline)
[Source]
"Remember Cedric. Remember, if the time should come, when you have to make a choice between what is right and what is easy, remember what happened to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, because he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort. Remember Cedric Diggory."
— Albus Dumbledore's eulogy to Cedric[src]
Cedric Diggory (September/October, 1977–24 June, 1995) was a British wizard who was the son of Amos Diggory and his wife. He started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1989, and was sorted into the Hufflepuff House. During his time at school he was a prefect and captained the Hufflepuff Quidditch team, playing as Seeker. In his sixth year Cedric put his name forward to compete in the Triwizard Tournament.
He was selected as the Hogwarts Triwizard Champion and, although overshadowed in the press by the entry of Harry Potter, Cedric enjoyed almost overwhelming support from the student body, and after the first two tasks, tied with Harry for first place. Cedric and Harry completed the Third Task together. Both took hold of the Triwizard Cup, which transported them to the Little Hangleton graveyard, where Cedric was murdered by Peter Pettigrew with the Killing Curse, on the orders of Lord Voldemort.
During the following duel between Harry and Voldemort, Cedric's echo reappeared during Priori Incantatem, and helped the echoes of Harry's parents, Bertha Jorkins, and Frank Bryce hold off Voldemort long enough for him to escape. His only request was for Harry to take his body back to his parents, which Harry honoured.
In 2020, Diggory's participation in the Triwizard Tournament and subsequent death was the subject of Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy's time-travel antics at the request of Amos. They sought to save Cedric and created an alternate timeline where Cedric survived and became part of the Death Eaters, because of the humiliation they caused him when they tried to save his life. Cedric's original and heroic life and death was later restored.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life (1977–1989)
1.2 Hogwarts years (1989–1995)
1.2.1 First year
1.2.2 Fifth year
1.2.3 Sixth year and death
1.2.3.1 Triwizard Champion
1.2.3.2 First Task
1.2.3.3 Yule Ball and Second Task
1.2.3.4 Third Task
1.2.3.5 Little Hangleton graveyard and death
1.3 Post-mortem (1995–2021)
1.3.1 Assisting Harry Potter
1.3.2 Legacy
1.4 Alternate timelines
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Possessions
6 Relationships
6.1 Amos Diggory
6.2 Cho Chang
6.3 Harry Potter
6.4 Pomona Sprout
7 Etymology
8 Behind the scenes
9 Appearances
10 Notes and references
Biography
Early life (1977–1989)
Cedric was born in either September or October of 1977, to Amos Diggory and his wife. He grew up near Ottery St Catchpole,[2] a small town located in Devon, England. When he was seven years old, his father enjoyed bragging about him.[11]
Hogwarts years (1989–1995)
"I said to him, I said — Ced, that'll be something to tell your grandchildren, that will... you beat Harry Potter!"
— Amos Diggory bragging about Cedric[src]
First year
Cedric started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on 1 September, 1989 and was Sorted into Hufflepuff House. Soon after starting Hogwarts, Cedric became a popular student at the school, and people talked about him constantly.[12]
Cedric and Penny Haywood witnessing a petrified Madam Pomfrey
He was present when Madam Pomfrey was petrified, and recounted the event to Albus Dumbledore, Severus Snape, Jacob's sibling, and Penny Haywood.[13]
After the Circle of Khanna was founded, Cedric's friend Ben Copper, one of the founders of the group, invited him to join. Cedric spent much of his time in the group training duelling with Ben and Diego Caplan.[10] One time during training, his arm was broken as a result of Ben casting a spell Cedric was not expecting, and he had to be sent to the Hospital Wing. He was soon healed by Chiara Lobosca.[14]
Cedric Diggory in his early school years
He distinguished himself as both an academic and athletic student. At some point, he became Seeker of his house's Quidditch team.[6]
Fifth year
"Harry looked wildly around. Cedric Diggory was pelting up the field, and a tiny speck of gold was shimmering in the rain filled air between them..."
— Cedric Diggory playing Quidditch in his fifth year[src]
Cedric playing as Seeker for the Hufflepuff Quidditch team
In 1993, Cedric became a Prefect and Captain of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team. On 7 November, he led his team against Gryffindor in the first match of the school year.[15] Originally, the match should have taken place between Gryffindor and Slytherin, but Draco Malfoy played on the fact that his arm had been injured by the hippogriff Buckbeak to get out of playing in stormy conditions. During the match, Cedric and Harry Potter contested the Golden Snitch. However, Harry was overcome by the presence of Dementors and fell from his broom. Cedric caught the Snitch, but as soon as he realised what had happened to Harry, he immediately offered to replay the match. Oliver Wood was said to have declined the offer, feeling that Cedric had won the match fair and square.[6]
When Harry got back his Firebolt broomstick, Cedric was among those who congratulated Harry on his ownership of the broomstick.[6]
Sixth year and death
"The Hogwarts Champion, is Cedric Diggory!"
— Albus Dumbledore announcing Cedric as a the Hogwarts Champion[src]
In the summer of 1994, Cedric attended the Quidditch World Cup with his father, travelling to the game with the Weasleys, Harry Potter, and Hermione Granger as he and his father lived close to the Burrow.[2]
Cedric started his sixth year in September 1994, the same year that the Triwizard Tournament was reinstated. Being of age, Cedric submitted his name to the Goblet of Fire for the chance to become the Hogwarts Champion. On 31 October, the Goblet chose the champions to represent the three schools; Fleur Delacour for Beauxbatons, Viktor Krum for Durmstrang, and Cedric himself for Hogwarts.
Cedric is selected as a champion by the Goblet of Fire
Cedric joined the other champions in a small room off the Great Hall, and was surprised to learn that after he had left the Hall, the Goblet had produced a fourth name — Harry Potter. Harry claimed that he did not cheat and put his name in, and while no-one thought he was telling the truth, Cedric was kind to Harry. Cedric later asked Harry how he managed to cheat, and Harry again told him that he never cheated. Though Harry felt Cedric did not believe him, he remained kind and appeared to be okay with what Harry was telling him.[2]
Triwizard Champion
Ollivander: "Ah, now, this is one of mine, isn't it? Yes, I remember it well. Containing a single hair from the tail of a particularly fine male unicorn... must have been seventeen hands; nearly gored me with his horn after I plucked his tail. Twelve and a quarter inches... ash.. pleasantly springy. It's in fine condition.... You treat it regularly?"
Cedric Diggory: "Polished it last night."
— Cedric having Mr Ollivander examine his wand[src]
The champions shortly after they had been chosen to enter the Triwizard Tournament
In the weeks that followed his selection, Cedric was supported by the majority of the school, even the Slytherins. Enchanted badges became popular around the school that read Support CEDRIC DIGGORY — the REAL Hogwarts Champion!, then changed to read POTTER STINKS. Cedric, however, was not fond of the badges and asked his friends not to wear them. As part of the Tournament, Cedric took part in the Wand weighing ceremony conducted by Garrick Ollivander, who deemed his wand "pleasantly springy", and posed for photos for the Daily Prophet. However, his entry into the Tournament was completely overlooked by Rita Skeeter's article on the event in favour of Harry, a situation about which his father was most displeased.[2]
First Task
Harry Potter: "Cedric, the first task is Dragons."
Cedric Diggory: "What?"
Harry Potter: "Dragons. They've got four, one for each of us, and we've got to get past them"
Cedric Diggory: "Are you sure?"
Harry Potter: "Dead sure. I've seen them."
Cedric Diggory: "But how did you find out? We're not supposed to know..."
— Harry informing Cedric about the first task[src]
In the months before to the First Task, Cedric was informed by Harry that the first task was to get past a dragon. Cedric was the only Champion not to be aware of them, and Harry felt it was only fair to tell him so everyone would be on an even footing.[2]
Dragons, the first task of the tournament
On 24 November, the Champions gathered and randomly selected miniature versions of a dragon with a number on them to indicate the order in which they would face them. Cedric drew the Swedish Short-Snout and the number one slot, so entered the arena first to attempt to retrieve the golden egg it was guarding. Facing the dragon, Cedric transfigured a rock into a Labrador to distract the creature. While the dragon turned to chase the dog, Cedric went for the Golden egg. Although he retrieved it, the dragon lost interest in the dog, preferring to go after Cedric. The dragon burned Cedric on the side of his face, and he barely managed to get away from it. He was tended to by Madam Pomfrey, who applied an orange paste to his face to heal the wound.[2]
Yule Ball and Second Task
Cedric Diggory: "Listen... I owe you one for telling me about the dragons. You know that golden egg? Does yours wail when you open it?"
Harry Potter: "Yeah."
Cedric Diggory: "Well... take a bath, okay?"
Harry Potter: "What?"
Cedric Diggory: "Take a bath, and — er — take the egg with you, and — er — just mull things over in the hot water. It'll help you think.... Trust me. Tell you what, use the prefects' bathroom. Fourth door to the left of that statue of Boris the Bewildered on the fifth floor. Password's 'pine fresh'. Gotta go... want to say good night —"
— Cedric returning Harry's previous favour[src]
Cedric in his Yule Ball robes
Like all the Champions, Cedric had to work out the clue hidden in the golden egg to prepare for the Second Task. He was aided by Barty Crouch Jnr, disguised as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, who told him to take it into the bath and listen to it underwater. He took it into the prefects' bathroom on the fifth floor, and opened the egg underwater. He heard the clue, but it took him a while to figure out that it referred to the merpeople in the lake.[2]
Harry Potter: "Who are you going with?"
Cho Chang: "Oh, Cedric. Cedric Diggory."
— Cho Chang telling Harry Potter that she is going to the Yule Ball with Cedric[src]
At Christmas, Cedric was required to attend the Yule Ball, a traditional part of the Triwizard Tournament. He asked Cho Chang to attend the ball with him, and she accepted. Towards the end of the ball, Cedric found Harry and told him to take the egg into the bath and "mull things over in the hot water" as he had done. As repayment for warning him about the dragons, he gave Harry access to the Prefect's Bathroom to work out the clue.[2]
The Four Champions
On 24 February, the Second Task took place. Having deciphered the clue in the golden egg, Cedric knew he had to breathe underwater for at least an hour and retrieve something that had been stolen from him. He effectively employed the Bubble-Head Charm, and reached the merpeople village shortly after Harry. He found that his something that he would "sorely miss" was Cho, and rescued her. He warned Harry — who was worried about the other "hostages" — to hurry up, then swam to the surface. He arrived one minute outside the hour time limit, and received forty-seven points. After two tasks, he was tied for first place with Harry.[2]
Third Task
Cedric Diggory: "You take it. You should win. That's twice you've saved my neck in here."
Harry Potter: "That's not how it's supposed to work. The one who reaches the cup first gets the points. That's you. I'm telling you, I'm not going to win any races on this leg."
Cedric Diggory: "No."
Harry Potter: "Stop being noble. Just take it, then we can get out of here."
Cedric Diggory: "You told me about the dragons. I would've gone down in the first task if you hadn't told me what was coming."
— Cedric offering Harry Potter victory in the maze[src]
Prior to the Third Task, Cedric, along with the other Champions, joined Ludo Bagman to view the maze that was being grown on the Hogwarts Quidditch pitch. Along with Harry, Cedric was dismayed to see the Quidditch pitch overgrown, but was assured by Bagman that the pitch would be returned to normal following the conclusion of the Tournament.[2]
Hufflepuffs cheering on Cedric
On 24 June, Cedric was joined by his parents, who had been invited to watch the Third Task. During the meeting, his father confronted Harry over the coverage he had been receiving in the press at the expense of his son. Cedric tried to calm him down and explain that it was not Harry's fault, then apologised to Harry.[2]
Cedric after just entering the hedge maze
Because they were tied for first place, Cedric entered the maze with Harry. They split up, each hoping to be the first to get to the Triwizard Cup placed in the centre of the maze. Soon after, Cedric encountered one of Rubeus Hagrid's now gigantic Blast-Ended Skrewts, and narrowly escaped being burned by it. After the Skrewt, Cedric came across Viktor Krum. Krum — who was under the Imperius Curse at the time — attacked Cedric with the Cruciatus Curse. He was saved by Harry, who stunned Krum, and reluctantly shot red sparks into the air to mark Krum's position, so that the Durmstrang champion could be retrieved from the maze. Despite being briefly united, he and Harry split apart again to seek the cup.[2]
Cedric and Harry inside the maze after the latter rescued him
Cedric spotted the cup, and sprinted towards it as fast as he could. From his left, an Acromantula burst onto the path and attacked him. His wand was knocked out of his hand, but the timely arrival of Harry distracted it enough for Cedric to recover his own wand. Although the giant spider was too powerful to be brought down by a single spell, Harry and Cedric both stunned it at the same time. Recovering, the two of them found themselves next to the Triwizard Cup.
Having been saved by Harry twice in the maze, Cedric urged him to take the Cup. The two argued about who should take it and win the Tournament, each pointing out that they had been helped by the other. Eventually, Harry suggested that they both take it for a Hogwarts victory. Pleased, Cedric helped the injured Harry towards the Cup, and they both took hold of it. Their touch activated the Cup, which had been turned into a Portkey, and the two of them were transported away.[2]
Little Hangleton graveyard and death
"From high above his head, he heard a high, cold voice say, "kill the spare." A swishing noise and a second voice, which screeched the words to the night: "Avada Kedavra!" A blast of green light blazed through Harry's eyelids, and he heard something heavy fall to ground beside him. Cedric was lying spread-eagled on the ground beside him. He was dead."
— Harry witnessing Peter Pettigrew murdering Cedric[src]
Cedric's murder at the hands of Peter Pettigrew and Lord Voldemort
The Portkey deposited both Cedric and Harry in an unknown graveyard. Confused, Cedric recommended proceeding with wands out until they knew what was going on. Soon after their arrival, Peter Pettigrew emerged from the darkness carrying the small form of Lord Voldemort. At this point Harry's scar hurt with intense pain, upon him being in close proximity to Voldemort. Voldemort ordered Pettigrew to "Kill the spare", and he used Voldemort's own wand to murder Cedric with the Killing Curse. Harry heard Cedric's body hit the ground.[2]
Post-mortem (1995–2021)
Assisting Harry Potter
Although dead, Cedric still had a role to play in the night's events. After Voldemort was reborn, he and Harry engaged in a duel, during which their wands — which shared a wand core from the same phoenix — connected, creating the effect known as Priori Incantatem, the backward spell effect. Voldemort's wand began regurgitating the last spells it had cast in reverse.
Cedric's echo asks Harry to take his body back to his parents
Cedric's shadow emerged from Voldemort's wand, along with the shadows of Frank Bryce, Bertha Jorkins, and James and Lily Potter. Cedric's "echo" asked Harry to take his body back to his parents while he helped the others. Harry agreed, and when he broke the wand connection, the shadows advanced on Voldemort, shielding Harry. Harry used the opportunity to take hold of Cedric's body, then summon the Cup to himself and transport them both back to Hogwarts.[2]
Legacy
"The Ministry of Magic, does not wish me to tell you this. It is possible that some of your parents will be horrified that I have done so — either because they will not believe that Lord Voldemort has returned, or because they think I should not tell you so, young as you are. It is my belief, however, that the truth is generally preferable to lies, and that any attempt to pretend that Cedric died as the result of an accident, or some sort of blunder of his own, is an insult to his memory."
— Albus Dumbledore speaking highly of the late Cedric Diggory[src]
Harry crying over Cedric's dead body after transporting them back to Hogwarts
Cedric's body was returned to the grounds, and Harry clung to it, refusing to let it go until Albus Dumbledore pulled him away. The crowd that had gathered for the Third Task erupted into screams when they realised what had happened, and Cedric's parents were grief-stricken by the fate that had befallen their son (although his mother attempted to console herself by reflecting that Cedric had not suffered in death, and that he had died after winning the Tournament, believing that the victory would have made him happy).[2]
Main article: Memorial feast to Cedric Diggory
Cedric's death was widely felt throughout the school, and on 26 June the Leaving Feast was turned into a memorial for him, with black banners replacing the house colours. Dumbledore delivered a tribute to Cedric, and relayed the events that had led to his death to the student body, telling them, against the explicit wishes of the Ministry of Magic, that the young Hufflepuff had been murdered by Lord Voldemort himself.[2]
Harry Potter: "So, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead of his own accord, did he?"
Dolores Umbridge: "Cedric Diggory's death was a tragic accident."
Harry Potter: "It was murder. Voldemort killed him, and you know it."
— Harry arguing with Dolores Umbridge over Cedric's death[src]
The Minister of Magic Cornelius Fudge refused to accept Harry Potter's claims that Lord Voldemort had returned, and tried to hush up Cedric's death, claiming that it was a freak accident during the Tournament that killed him. He also slandered Harry Potter as a liar and questioned Albus Dumbledore's sanity.[16]
In death, Cedric proved to be an inspiration to many students at Hogwarts. His death was heartfelt and was tragic enough to cause even those who disliked Harry to believe his claims of Voldemort's return. During the school year after Cedric's death, Hogwarts was under the watchful eyes of the British Ministry of Magic with Dolores Umbridge, a high-ranking Ministry official being employed as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. She constantly told students that Harry lied about Cedric's death and refused to teach any practical magic.[16]
Cedric's photo, along with the original Order of the Phoenix's, was stuck on the D.A.'s mirror as something to look at for inspiration
This started a rebellion amongst the students, and they formed Dumbledore's Army, an alliance against Umbridge that taught students how to prepare themselves for the day that Lord Voldemort announced his return. During the D.A's meetings, Cedric was a key point of interest, with students wanting accounts of how he died, and his former girlfriend, Cho, seeking comfort from Harry, by asking whether Cedric would have survived if he had known what they were being taught. Harry, in turn, assured her that Cedric had known what he (Harry) was teaching the other students, but Cedric was simply unable to match Voldemort's experience and evil, and that Harry himself had made it back through good luck, rather than greater talent.[17] Later on that year, only when incontrovertible proof of the Dark Lord's return was presented, did Fudge believe Voldemort had indeed returned and that Cedric was actually murdered.[16]
Cedric was thereafter remembered as someone who had not strayed across the dark path and whom had stood up to Voldemort. Harry continued to honour him by keeping a badge that read "Support Cedric Diggory".[18]
Alternate timelines
By 2020, Cedric's father, Amos, was still greatly grieving for his son's death. When he found out Harry Potter had retrieved a Time-Turner, he begged Harry to use it to save Cedric. Harry stated that it was dangerous to meddle with time, but his own son, Albus Potter, secretly agreed to it along with his friend, Scorpius Malfoy. Although they managed to create alternate realities (including one where Cedric lived), it changed time too much and they had to restore the original timeline. Indeed, the one timeline where Albus and Scorpius succeeded their goal of saving Cedric actually humiliated him in public, causing him to join the Death Eaters in bitter hatred for society; he ended up killing Neville Longbottom, thus preventing Nagini's death, which in turn prevented Voldemort from being killed, and Harry was killed in turn, thus leading to an age of darkness where Voldemort ruled. Albus and Scorpius prevented an attempt at changing time a third time by Delphi during the third task with the help of Cedric himself who rescued the two from the Dark witch, thinking that it was part of the task.
In 2021, Harry visited Cedric's grave, which was placed on a beautiful hill. He shared this experience with his son, Albus Potter, explaining that he came to say sorry for a life that was stolen and that he visits every year on the anniversary of Cedric's death. He tells Albus that Cedric was a great wizard and that he did not deserve his fate.[19]
Physical appearance
Angelina Johnson : "He's that tall, good-looking one, isn't he?"
Katie Bell: "Strong and silent."
— A discussion regarding Cedric's physical appearance[src]
Cedric in his sixth year
Cedric was a tall and extremely handsome young man with chiselled features, dark hair, and bright grey eyes. Although he was a Seeker (a position usually taken by small and light players) he was well-built and burly.[6]
Because of his handsomeness, Cedric caught attention from numerous girls - Angelina Johnson commented that he was "tall and good-looking", while Katie Bell agreed that he was "strong and silent". Even Pansy Parkinson, who usually had something negative to say about everyone's appearance, acknowledged his good looks. The fact that Fleur Delacour tried to use her Veela allure on him to charm him into becoming her date for the Yule Ball was further proof of how attractive he was to the opposite sex.
Personality and traits
Amos Diggory: "Ced's talked about you, of course. Told us all about playing against you last year.... I said to him, I said — Ced, that'll be something to tell your grandchildren, that will.... You beat Harry Potter!"
Cedric Diggory: "Harry fell off his broom, Dad. I told you... it was an accident...."
Amos Diggory: "Yes, but you didn't fall off, did you? Always modest, our Ced, always the gentleman... but the best man won, I'm sure Harry'd say the same, wouldn't you, eh? One falls off his broom, one stays on, you don't need to be a genius to tell which one's the better flier!"
— Cedric's modesty regarding his achievements[src]
Cedric laughing at Draco Malfoy's expense
Cedric was said to be an embodiment of the qualities of Hufflepuff House. He had a sense of fair play: during the 1993 Gryffindor/Hufflepuff match, despite his capture of the Golden Snitch (which ensured his team's victory), Cedric immediately offered to replay the match once he found out that his opponent, Harry Potter, had fallen from his broom due to the influence of the Dementors.[6] Later on, he provided Harry with information as to how to decipher the golden egg clue for the Second Task. After Harry saved him in the maze, Cedric realised that Harry was the one who truly deserved to take the Triwizard Cup, and had no qualms with openly acknowledging it, which actually resulted in an argument of sorts between them. This sense of fair play and his ability to accept there were those who were better than him is a definite testament to his nobility and his grace.
He also appeared to possess a strength of character that was not unlike Harry's. This came into play when Fleur's turning the force of her Veela charm on him while asking him to be her date for the Yule Ball. He refused, for he already had a date. Hence, it could be said that Cedric was a man of his word with remarkable inner strength, especially given how he was able to successfully resist the allure of Veela charm (which could be overwhelming) and keep his previously made promise.
Besides all this, Cedric was genuinely modest, telling his father that his victory in the Gryffindor/Hufflepuff Quidditch match had not been a truly fair one. All the female Gryffindor Chasers described him as being "strong and silent", suggesting that he was sensible enough to speak only when it was absolutely necessary. He was also courteously polite to foreigners: though he supported Ireland during the 1994 Quidditch World Cup final, he was still civil to Viktor Krum (who was from Bulgaria). The fact that his spirit's last request to Harry had only been to take his body back to his parents also proved that he loved his parents dearly.
While this side of him was never seen in the original timeline, he appeared to have a sense of honour and importance for his title at the school. This was proven by the fact that in one of the alternate timelines, in which he was humiliated during the Triwizard Tournament, this feeling of embarrassment eventually led him to join the Death Eaters. This means that if his pride or status had ever been shot down enough, this feeling of anger would have turned him over to the Death Eaters.
Magical abilities and skills
"Cedric Diggory, who also used the Bubble-Head Charm, was first to return with his hostage, though he returned one minute outside the time limit of an hour. We therefore award him forty-seven points."
— Ludovic Bagman praising Cedric's impressive use of the Bubble-Head Charm during the Second Task of the Triwizard Tournament[src]
Given Cedric's relatively smooth and successful participation in the Triwizard Tournament, he was a skilful and competent wizard in his own right.[2] He was also an accomplished Quidditch player.[6]
Flying: As the Captain and Seeker of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team, Cedric was a skilful and accomplished flyer and Quidditch player, especially since the position of Seeker was generally considered to be the hardest position to play. In particular, he was noted to have a very fast swerve.[6] He even defeated Harry Potter once in a match, although this had been due to the presence of Dementors causing Harry to fall off his broom,[6] but many still considered it an impressive display of his flying abilities.[2]
"You were the best, you know, no competition. Cedric did this weird thing where he Transfigured a rock on the ground... turned it into a dog... he was trying to make the dragon go for the dog instead of him. Well, it was a pretty cool bit of Transfiguration..."
— Ron Weasley regarding Cedric's talent for transfiguration[src]
Transfiguration: Cedric was shown to be proficient in transfiguration, given how he transformed a rock into a dog during the first task of the Tournament, and took the subject at N.E.W.T.-level, meaning he must have achieved either an "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding" at O.W.L..[2]
Cedric rescuing Cho Chang in the Great Lake using a Bubble-Head Charm
Charms: Cedric was shown to be proficient in charm-work, using a successful Bubble-Head Charm during the second task of the Tournament, and took the subject at N.E.W.T.-level, meaning he must have achieved either an "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding" at O.W.L. level. He also used the Wand-Lighting Charm to illuminate his dark surroundings whilst navigating the maze of the Third Task, along with casting the Red Sparks to alert the defeat of Viktor Krum.[2] Furthermore, Cedric was shown to be very talented in the casting of defensive charms,[17] such as the Disarming Charm and Stunning Spell;[2] he was capable of using the Stunning Spell to stun and defeat an Acromantula, a highly dangerous beast in the maze of the Third Task with Harry Potter's help.[2]
Indomitable willpower: Cedric was shown to possess an exceptionally strong willpower that could rival that of Harry's. For instance, he was able to successfully resist Fleur's Veela charm and honour his previous arrangement with Cho. This was no easy feat, as Veela charm could be particularly powerful and Fleur seemed to be turning on the full force of it upon him.[2]
Possessions
Cedric's wand
Wand: Cedric owned a wand, which 12¼ inches long, made of Ash wood with a Unicorn hair core. It was manufactured by the Wandmaker Garrick Ollivander and purchased from his wand shop Ollivanders in Diagon Alley, prior to 1988. It was described as being "pleasantly springy" by Ollivander during the Wand weighing ceremony in 1994.
Dress robes: He owned formal black Dress robes that he wore to the Yule Ball with his date Cho Chang.
Prefect badge: Having been made a Prefect in his fifth year at Hogwarts, Cedric owned a Hufflepuff Prefect badge, which he would have worn during his formal Prefect duties.
A Guide to Advanced Transfiguration: Being a N.E.W.T. level student of Transfiguration class, Cedric owned a copy of this advanced textbook which he kept in his school bag among his other books.
Broomstick: Being a successful and accomplished Quidditch of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team, Cedric would have owned his own broomstick which he would have flown with.
Relationships
Amos Diggory
"A memorial? I am not interested in a memorial — not anymore. I am an old man — an old dying man — and I am here to ask you — beg you — to help me get him back."
— An elderly Amos Diggory expressing his desire to see Cedric again to Harry Potter[src]
Amos Diggory, his father
Amos Diggory was immensely proud of his son and his achievements, especially when he beat Harry Potter during a Quidditch match in 1993, dismissing Cedric's insistence that Harry had fallen off his broom because of Dementors just before Cedric caught the Snitch. During the Triwizard Tournament, Amos was outraged that the Daily Prophet completely overlooked the fact that Cedric was also a Hogwarts champion in favour of Harry Potter, and made no mention of him at all. Despite his son trying to point out that it wasn't Harry's fault, Amos countered by remarking that Harry hadn't done anything to correct them.[2]
After Cedric's death, Amos was overcome with grief. Along with his wife, he visited Harry in the hospital wing, and thanked him for bringing his son's body back, and assured Harry that he wasn't to blame for his son's death.[2]
Cho Chang
"Well, obviously, she's feeling very sad, because of Cedric dying. Then I expect she's feeling confused because she liked Cedric and now she likes Harry, and she can't work out who she likes best. Then she'll be feeling guilty, thinking it's an insult to Cedric's memory to be kissing Harry at all, and she'll be worrying about what everyone else might say about her if she starts going out with Harry. And she probably can't work out what her feelings toward Harry are anyway, because he was the one who was with Cedric when Cedric died, so that's all very mixed up and painful."
— Hermione Granger talking about Cho's sadness over Cedric's death[src]
Cho Chang, his Yule Ball date and girlfriend
Cho Chang started dating Cedric when he asked her to be his partner for the Yule Ball. She was very taken with him, and they, along with the other Champions and partners, opened the dancing at the Ball. During the Second Task, Cho was the "something" that Cedric would "sorely miss", and was placed into a bewitched sleep. Taken beneath the waves of the lake to the Merpeople's village, Cedric rescued her. During the awarding of points for the Task, she gave him a glowing look. Cedric and Cho also went on a date at Madam Puddifoot's Tea Shop during the year.[2]
Cedric's death hit her hard, and she cried a lot over him.[2] In the following year, she grew closer to Harry, and was confused by her feelings for him, and felt guilty over them. However, their relationship was not to last, as she soon began using their relationship to talk about Cedric and try to get some closure over his death, which ultimately failed as Harry disliked talking about it, and refused to, leading Cho to cry.[16]
Harry Potter
Cedirc Diggory: "So. We're playing against each other again!"
Harry Potter: "I s'pose."
Cedirc Diggory: "So... tell me... How did you get your name in?"
Harry Potter: "I didn't. I didn't put it in. I was telling the truth."
Cedirc Diggory: "Ah... okay. Well... see you, then."
— Cedric being friendly towards Harry Potter[src]
Harry Potter, his friend and fellow champion
Cedric and Harry had a relationship of mutual respect and friendliness, though they were not close. In 1993, when Gryffindor and Hufflepuff played against each other in Quidditch, Cedric offered to replay the match after Harry was incapacitated by Dementors, though the Gryffindors refused, believing that Cedric caught the Golden Snitch fair and square.[6] The following year, when Harry was selected as Hogwarts' champion along with Cedric, Harry felt Cedric was sceptical of Harry's claims that he was not to blame, but he still disapproved of students wearing Support Cedric Diggory/Potter Stinks badges and discouraged it.
They assisted each other multiple times during the Tournament out of good sportsmanship, agreeing in the end that they were equally winners. Both of them touching the Triwizard Cup led to Cedric's murder, an event which haunted Harry for years. During Harry's duel with Voldemort, his spirit appeared to assist Harry when the two wands connected. He asked Harry to bring his body back to his parents. When the connection was broken, he and the other spirits that appeared distracted Voldemort to buy Harry enough time to escape to safety with his body.
"Harry... take my body back, will you? Take my body back to my parents...."
— Cedric's echo to Harry Potter[src]
Harry risked his own life to fulfil Cedric's request and retrieve his remains. He nearly died as the Portkey was too far away to reach, forcing him to use a Summoning Charm. Harry would later use the death of Cedric (along with the deaths of his mother and father) as added motivation when fighting Lord Voldemort.[2] Cedric's death allowed Harry to see thestrals at the beginning of his fifth year. Harry avenged Cedric when he killed Voldemort at the end of the Battle of Hogwarts.
Pomona Sprout
"They are with Professor Sprout. She was Head of Cedric's house, and knew him best."
— Albus Dumbledore in 1995, after Cedric Diggory's death[src]
Pomona Sprout, his Head of House and Professor
Because Cedric Diggory was a Hufflepuff student, Pomona Sprout respected him. When Harry Potter became the second Hogwarts champion in 1994, he felt that she had become distant with him as she was partial to Cedric because he was in Hufflepuff.[2] When Cedric Diggory was killed, she spoke to his parents, as she knew him best.[2]
Etymology
The name Cedric was unintentionally created by Sir Walter Scott in his Ivanhoe character Cedric the Saxon when he misspelt the name Cerdic. Cerdic was a sixth-century Saxon leader and the first king of Wessex.
It is commonly believed that J. K. Rowling borrowed Cedric's last name from Digory Kirke in C.S. Lewis's Narnia series, as he is said to be one of her favourite authors.
Behind the scenes
Cedric as he appears on Pottermore
Cedric as he appears on Pottermore
Cedric Diggory as a LEGO mini-figure
Cedric Diggory as a LEGO mini-figure
Cedric Diggory in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Cedric was portrayed by Robert Pattinson in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Joe Livermore portrayed Cedric in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.
Tom Milligan portrays Cedric in the original West End production of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child.[20]
Cedric's death is the first death Harry witnesses in the book series. Harry was in his cot when his mother died, but he would not remember this due to his age at the time, and he passed out before he sees Quirrell die. Yet, Harry is unable to see the Thestrals until Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, because the reality of Cedric's death has not fully sunk in. Technically, however, Harry did not witness the event at all in the books, as he was described to have his eyes closed with agony during Cedric's actual death.
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Cedric, the Hufflepuff Seeker is struck by lightning during the Gryffindor-Hufflepuff match just as he is about to catch the Snitch, causing him to fall back. The player is not named in the film's dialogue, but "Diggory" is embroidered above the Hufflepuff logo on his Quidditch robes, and the costume is identified as "Cedric Diggory's Quidditch robes" in Harry Potter: The Exhibition.[21] However, it may have not been intended to be Cedric at the time, since in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Harry, along with Fred and George Weasley, do not show signs of knowing Cedric previously, as the film implies that they are first introduced to him on the way to the Quidditch World Cup; while in the novel they only knew him from the aforementioned Quidditch match against Hufflepuff in the previous school year.
When Harry is cleaning out his school trunk in 1997, he finds a "Support Cedric Diggory!" badge in there. Considering the badges were only created by Draco Malfoy to get a rise out of Harry in 1994, it seems out of place that Harry has it, although he may have it by accident, or out of respect for Cedric. He could also have kept one as a memento from the Tournament.
Cedric once borrowed Quidditch Through the Ages from the Hogwarts Library, and was due to return the book on 3 July.
Although Harry and Dumbledore say it was Voldemort who killed Cedric, it was actually Peter Pettigrew, under Voldemort's orders, who killed him. It could be that they meant that Voldemort ordered Pettigrew to kill Cedric. It also should be noted that the wand Peter used to kill Cedric with was Voldemort's. In addition, they were likely simplifying the facts to address the relatively greater issue of Voldemort's return, and not to waste time explaining Pettigrew's defection and faking his own death.
In LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4, Cedric is not killed right away like in the novel and film. He is stuck to the statue with Harry, and participates in the ensuing battle. Rather, he is killed when Voldemort shoots a Killing Curse just as they grab the cup, which strikes Cedric and kills him. Despite Cedric's death in the graveyard, his father gets instructions on how to rebuild him from Dumbledore. However, in the sequel, it is implied that Cedric is still dead, most likely to avoid creating a plothole surrounding the aftermath of his death and the Ministry's denial of Voldemort's return.
Robert Pattinson has openly stated that he would rather want to play Cedric Diggory than playing Edward Cullen from the Twilight series.
Despite being dead at the time, Cedric Diggory is an opponent in the Duelling Club minigame in the Nintendo DS version of LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7.
Man of Steel star Henry Cavill auditioned to play Cedric, but lost out to Robert Pattinson. He later lost out to Pattinson on playing Edward Cullen in Twilight, despite being author Stephanie Meyer's first choice for the role.[22]
Hufflepuff is a house that is said to have produced the fewest Dark wizards. In an alternative timeline Cedric joined the Death Eaters and murdered Neville Longbottom. It's possible that due to the unique circumstances of Cedric's humiliation during the Triwizard Tournament and the overwhelming presence of the Death Eaters within the British Wizarding community created a situation where Cedric was easily influenced by the Dark Arts and the benefits that joining Lord Voldemort's elite could bring.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 171 images related to Cedric Diggory.
Cedric Diggory as a POP! Vinyl
Cedric Diggory (in his Yule Ball dress robes) as a POP! Vinyl
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (video game)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Mentioned only) (Appears in vision(s))
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears in flashback(s)) (Appears in photographs)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Appears in photographs)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child (play)
Quidditch Through the Ages (Mentioned only)
Pottermore
Wizarding World
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 (Appears in flashback(s))
LEGO Harry Potter
Harry Potter for Kinect
Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup
Harry Potter: The Character Vault
Harry Potter: The Creature Vault (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Notes and references
↑ Cedric is described as a fifth year in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, which means he was in his sixth year at Hogwarts during the 1994–1995 school year and had to have started in the 1989–1990 school year. As students have to be 11 when they start, Cedric had to be born after 1 September 1977 but before 31 October 1977, as Cedric had to be 17 to put his name in the Goblet of Fire.
↑
2.00 2.01 2.02 2.03 2.04 2.05 2.06 2.07 2.08 2.09 2.10 2.11 2.12 2.13 2.14 2.15 2.16 2.17 2.18 2.19 2.20 2.21 2.22 2.23 2.24 2.25 2.26 2.27 2.28 2.29 2.30 2.31 2.32 2.33 2.34 2.35 2.36 2.37 2.38 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
↑ In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 24 (Rita Skeeter's Scoop), Hagrid tells Harry that he hopes he wins the Triwizard Tournament as "It'd show 'em all ... yeh don' have ter be pureblood ter do it." implying that Cedric is a pure-blood. Since Cedric's parents were both wizards, he could not have been a Muggle-born anyway.
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 6 (The Portkey)
↑
6.00 6.01 6.02 6.03 6.04 6.05 6.06 6.07 6.08 6.09 6.10 6.11 6.12 6.13 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
↑
7.0 7.1 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 18 (The Weighing of the Wands) - "Exceptionally handsome, with his straight nose, dark hair, and grey eyes, it was hard to say who was receiving more admiration these days, Cedric or Viktor Krum."
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 20 (The First Task) - "Cedric stared at him. Harry saw some of the panic he'd been feeling since Saturday night flickering in Cedric's grey eyes."
↑ LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
↑
10.0 10.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 20 (A Circle of Friends)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, "Party Planner" Achievement
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 6 (On Jacob's Trail)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 14 (A New Friend of a Friend)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 21 (Moving Forward)
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Chapter 9 (Grim Defeat) - "They've got a new Captain and Seeker, Cedric Diggory"
↑
16.0 16.1 16.2 16.3 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
↑
17.0 17.1 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 2 (In Memoriam)
↑ Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Act Four, Scene Fifteen
↑ Tom Milligan on the official Harry Potter and the Cursed Child website
↑ Harry Potter: The Exhibition photo on SnitchSeeker.com
↑ "Henry Cavill Reveals the Roles He Didn't Get"
Preceded by:
Unknown Captain of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team
?–1994 Succeeded by:
Zacharias Smith
Preceded by:
Unknown Seeker of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team
?–1994 Succeeded by:
Summerby
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Head Boys and Girls
Albus Dumbledore · Tom Riddle · Minerva McGonagall · James Potter · Lily Evans · Bill Weasley · Jacob's sibling · Corey Hayden · Percy Weasley · Teddy Lupin
Prefects
Hannah Abbott · Penelope Clearwater · Angelica Cole · Jane Court · Chester Davies · Cedric Diggory · Albus Dumbledore · Gemma Farley · Jake Flinton · Anthony Goldstein · Hermione Granger · Nicolas Grimmett · Robert Hawking · Robert Hilliard · Remus Lupin · Ernie Macmillan · Draco Malfoy · Lucius Malfoy · Minerva McGonagall · Cyril Meakin · Eric Murley · Pansy Parkinson · Padma Patil · Damian Perriss · Tom Riddle · Felix Rosier · Edmund Spiers · Jonathan Spratt · Kevin Sterndale · Terry Strickland · Marcus Turner · Gabriel Truman · Bill Weasley · Charlie Weasley · Percy Weasley · Ron Weasley · Ryan Westrup · Mervyn Wynch · Unidentified Gryffindor Prefect (I) · Unidentified Gryffindor Prefect (II) · Unidentified Ravenclaw Prefect (I) · Unidentified Ravenclaw Prefect (II) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (I) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (II) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (III)
Quidditch positions at Hogwarts
Captains
Filemina Alchin · Astrix Alixan · Orion Amari · Angelina Appleby · Oona Ballington · Concepta Battista · Hugh Biggs · Richard Carter · Angelica Cole · Stuart Craggy · Winky Crockett · Roger Davies · Cedric Diggory · Marcus Flint · Hamish Frater · Stephen Gould · David Hamblin · Natalie Holkham · Jody Jacknife · Angelina Johnson · Jo King · Neil Lament · Steve Laughalot · Graham Montague · Mark Overcliff · Andrew Snowy Owl · Harry Potter · Isobel Ross · Ashley Sanders · Lucinda Talkalot · Urquhart · Emma Vanity · Charlie Weasley · Rufus Winickus · Oliver Wood
Keepers
Kevin Bletchley · Miles Bletchley · Brennan Doyle · Andre Egwu · Herbert Fleet · Geoffrey Hooper · Cormac McLaggen · Grant Page · Ron Weasley · Oliver Wood · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Gryffindor Keeper · Unidentified Slytherin Keeper · Unidentified Keeper (I) · Unidentified Keeper (II)
Chasers
Orion Amari · Tamsin Applebee · Katie Bell · Bradley · Randolph Burrow · Cadwallader · Chambers · Roger Davies · Eekins · Marcus Flint · Rose Granger-Weasley · Jarrett · Angelina Johnson · Heidi Macavoy · Graham Montague · Ethan Parkin · Skye Parkin · James Potter · Malcolm Preece · Adrian Pucey · Demelza Robins · Zacharias Smith · Alicia Spinnet · Jeremy Stretton · Dean Thomas · Urquhart · Vaisey · Cassius Warrington · Ginny Weasley · Blaise Zabini · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Chaser · Unidentified Chaser (II) · Unidentified fourth year Chaser · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (I) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (II) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (III) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (IV) · Erika Rath's friend (I)
Beaters
Bean · Lucian Bole · Ritchie Coote · Vincent Crabbe · Peregrine Derrick · Dobbin · Gregory Goyle · Duncan Inglebee · Andrew Kirke · Michael McManus · Maxine O'Flaherty · Jimmy Peakes · Erika Rath · Anthony Rickett · Jason Samuels · Jack Sloper · Fred Weasley · George Weasley · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Beater · Unidentified Gryffindor beater · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (I) · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (II)
Seekers
Regulus Black · Cho Chang · Cedric Diggory · Andre Egwu · Harper · Terence Higgs · Gilderoy Lockhart · Draco Malfoy · Harry Potter · Summerby · Charlie Weasley · Ginny Weasley · Unidentified Gryffindor seeker · Unidentified Hufflepuff Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Substitute Seeker · Unidentified Seeker · Unidentified Seeker (II)
Unknown Positions
Vicky Bishopper · Robin Higgy · R. King · M. G. McGonagall · Katie Rayknolls · Erika Rath's friend (II)
Possible Players
Christian Alexander · Brandon Angel · Jada Angela · Owen Anthony · Tanner Van Burm · Haley Dakota · Jennifer Dawn · Fay Dunbar · Riley Frazer · Ethan Gerard · Ryan Henry · Erica J. · Ella Jo · Timothy Justin · Sage Kelleen · Luisa · Trinity Lynn · Trev Mallory · Alexis Marie · Gianna Grace Marie · Abigail Nicola · Amber Noel · Phelan Noel · Remy Olivier · Jackson Sheppard · Richard Sky · Emily Taylor · Alexander William
The Triwizard Tournament
Objects & Locations: Goblet of Fire • Casket • Golden egg • Hedge Maze • Triwizard Cup
Schools: Beauxbatons • Durmstrang • Hogwarts
1994-1995 Triwizard Champions: Fleur Delacour • Viktor Krum • Cedric Diggory • Harry Potter