Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Cedrella Weasley (née Black)
Biographical information
Born
1915-1919[1]
Blood status
Pure-blood[2]
Marital status
Married
Nationality
British or Irish[3]
Physical information
Species
Human[2]
Gender
Female[2]
Skin colour
White
Relationship information
Family members
Arcturus Black II (father) †
Lysandra Black (mother)
Callidora Longbottom (older sister)
Charis Crouch (younger sister) †
Harfang Longbottom (brother-in-law)
Caspar Crouch (brother-in-law) †
Septimus Weasley (husband)
Two older sons
Bilius (possible son) †
Arthur Weasley (son)
Molly Weasley (née Prewett) (daughter-in-law)
Nephew
Niece
Nephew †
Bartemius Crouch Snr (possible nephew) †
Two nieces †
Sirius Black II (paternal uncle) †
Hesper Black (paternal aunt by marriage)
Phineas Black (paternal uncle) †
Cygnus Black II (paternal uncle) †
Violetta Black (paternal aunt by marriage)
Belvina Burke (paternal aunt) †
Herbert Burke (paternal uncle by marriage)
Arcturus Black III (paternal first cousin) †
Lycoris Black (paternal first cousin) †
Regulus Black I (paternal first cousin) †
Pollux Black (paternal first cousin) †
Cassiopeia Black (paternal first cousin) †
Marius Black (paternal first cousin) †
Dorea Potter (paternal first cousin) †
Male paternal cousins
Female paternal cousin
Phineas Nigellus Black (paternal grandfather) †
Ursula Black (paternal grandmother)
Weasley children's cousin (possible grandson)
William Weasley (grandson)
Charles Weasley (grandson)
Percy Weasley (grandson)
Fred Weasley I (grandson) †
George Weasley (grandson)
Ronald Weasley (grandson)
Ginevra Potter (née Weasley) (granddaughter)
Victoire Weasley (great-granddaughter)
Dominique Weasley (great-granddaughter)
Louis Weasley (great-grandson)
Molly Weasley II (great-granddaughter)
Lucy Weasley (grea-granddaughter)
Fred Weasley II (great-grandson)
Roxanne Weasley (great-grandson)
James Potter II (great-grandson)
Albus Potter (great-grandson)
Rose Granger-Weasley (great-granddaughter)
Lily L. Potter (great-granddaughter)
Hugo Granger-Weasley (great-grandson)
Romances
Septimus Weasley (husband)
Affiliation
House
Slytherin[4]
Loyalty
House of Black (disowned)
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Slytherin
Weasley family
[Source]
Cedrella Weasley (née Black) was a pure-blood witch, the second eldest daughter of Arcturus Black II and Lysandra Black, and sister of Charis and Callidora.
Cedrella married Septimus Weasley. The Weasley family had been considered blood traitors ever since they protested their inclusion in the Sacred Twenty-Eight, and so, due to her marriage, Cedrella was disowned and burned off the Black family tree tapestry.[2]
Cedrella and Septimus had three sons, one of whom is Arthur Weasley. Through Cedrella, the Weasley family is related not only to the Black family, but also to the Crouch and Longbottom families.[2] Through Arthur, she has seven grandchildren.
Contents
1 Etymology
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Etymology
Cedrella is a rare feminine variant of "Cedric", which in turn is derived from the Old Celtic name Caratacos, which means "love".[5]
Cedrela is also a genus in the mahogany family, native to the New World. Cedrela odorata is a timber wood often sold under the name "Spanish-cedar" even though it is neither Spanish nor a cedar. It is used in the making of cigar boxes and guitars as well as general construction work.
Behind the scenes
Horace Slughorn claimed that the Blacks were almost exclusively sorted into Slytherin House,[6] thus Cedrella might be considered an example of a "good Slytherin" for her non-biased views about blood purity. Given that she was born between 1915 and 1919, she would have most likely been one of the first students of Slughorn's at some point, as Slughorn began his teaching career in 1931.
Cedrella’s older sister Callidora was born in 1915, and her younger sister Charis was born in 1919, so Cedrella must have been born sometime between late 1915 and early 1919.
Cedrella had three sons. One of them was Arthur, and it is possible that another one was Bilius.
On the family tree, Cedrella is depicted next to her sisters. She looks similar to her great-aunt Iola, who was likewise disowned due to her marriage.
Cedrella is similar to Andromeda Tonks, who, like Cedrella, was the middle of three daughters and married against her family's wishes while her elder and younger sisters made "respectable" pureblood marriages.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears on Black family tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑ Her older sister, Callidora, and younger sister, Charis, were born in 1915 and 1919, respectively.
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 Black family tree
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑ In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 4, Horace Slughorn states: "The whole Black family had been in my house, but Sirius ended up in Gryffindor!" This implies that all Blacks except Sirius were sorted into Slytherin while Slughorn was teaching at Hogwarts. As revealed in Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies, Chapter 3 (Horace Slughorn), Slughorn had "completed half a century of service" at the time of his retirement in 1981, meaning he started teaching there circa 1931. Cedrella, born between 1915 and early 1919, presumably attended Hogwarts starting between 1926 and 1930 and graduating between 1933 and 1938, and thus would have been a student of Slughorn for at least part of her time at Hogwarts.
↑ BehindTheName.com
↑ Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince