"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
"Neither can live while the other survives..."
This page has been suggested to be merged with Director of the Ministry Police No. 41041.
If you disagree with its merge, please explain why at Category talk:Articles to be merged or improve the page and remove this {{merge}} tag.
Director of the Investigation Department No. 61042
Physical information
Species
Human
Affiliation
Occupation
Director of the Investigation Department of the Auror Office
Loyalty
British Ministry of Magic
Investigation Department
[Source]
This individual (fl. 1996) was the director of the Auror Office Investigation Department under Gawain Robards, Head of the Auror Office. The Death Eater wanted posters issued in the summer of 1996 were signed by this individual.[1]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (Mentioned on a poster)
Notes and references
↑ See this image.
Department of Magical Law Enforcement employees
Heads of Department
Justus Pilliwickle · Torquil Travers · Bartemius Crouch Senior · Amelia Bones · Pius Thicknesse · Corban Yaxley · Harry Potter
Auror Office
Heads: Theseus Scamander · Rufus Scrimgeour · Gawain Robards · Harry Potter
Mordecai Berrycloth · John Dawlish · Penelope Fawley · Dorian Fungbury · Timothy Hale · Alice Longbottom · Frank Longbottom · Neville Longbottom · Alastor Moody · Riya Patel · Proudfoot · Savage · Kingsley Shacklebolt · Nymphadora Tonks · Ronald Weasley · Williamson · Unidentified Aurors · Unidentified male Auror at Hogwarts · 3 Unidentified Aurors at Hogwarts · Director of the Investigation Department No. 61042
Improper Use of Magic Office
Heads: Travers · Dolores Umbridge
Mafalda Hopkirk · Honoria's fiancé · Mafalda Hopkirk's Ministerial Superior · Rufus Fudge · Orabella Nuttley · Chester Davies
Other Personnel
Leta Lestrange · Minerva McGonagall · Elphinstone Urquart · Alastor Gumboil · Arnold Peasegood · Arthur Weasley · Perkins · Cerberus Langarm · Hermione Granger · Bob Ogden · Tulip Karasu's mother · Tulip Karasu's father · Dempster Wiggleswade · Amelia Bones's assistant · Arthur Weasley's ten subordinates · Unidentified Hit Wizard · Unidentified Wizengamot clerk