Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
Edgar Cloggs
Biographical information
Born
No later than 1880[1]
Died
Before 1892[2]
Physical information
Species
Human (formerly)[3]
Ghost[3]
Gender
Male[3]
Affiliation
Occupation
Quidditch player[3]
Loyalty
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry[3]
[Source]
Edgar Cloggs was a ghost who was often found hanging around the Quidditch pitch at Hogwarts for as long as anyone could remember. He was willing to help the Hogwarts Quidditch teams to practise.[3] By the year of 1993, he was also included on a Chocolate Frog Card, for his achievements in the sport.[4]
Etymology
Derived from the Old English elements ead "rich, blessed" and gar "spear". This was the name of a 10th century English king who is regarded as a saint. The name did not survive long after the Norman conquest, but it was revived in the 18th century, in part due to a character by this name in Sir Walter Scott's novel 'The Bride of Lammermoor' (1819). Famous bearers include author and poet Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849), French impressionist painter Edgar Degas (1834-1917), and author Edgar Rice Burroughs (1875-1950).
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 2 images related to Edgar Cloggs.
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup (First appearance)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑ Harry states that he is "the youngest seeker in a century". If this statement is supposed to be taken literally, Edgar Cloggs cannot be younger than 12 at the time he died, as he was dead by 1892 and was already playing Quidditch.
↑ Taking "as long as anyone can remember" at face value, he would have been haunting the Quidditch Pitch since the oldest known living person at Hogwarts, Albus Dumbledore, began studying there.
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game)