The Fallen Fifty
Biographical information
Died
2 May, 1998
Hogwarts Castle, Scotland[1]
Physical information
Species
Humans[1], a Werewolf[1]
Gender
Mixed[1]
Affiliation
Loyalty
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry[1]
Order of the Phoenix[1]
Harry Potter[1]
Dumbledore's Army[1]
[Source]
"They moved Voldemort's body and laid it in a chamber off the Hall, away from the bodies of Fred, Tonks, Lupin, Colin Creevey, and fifty others who died fighting him."
— Description of the post-Battle[src]
The Fallen Fifty[2] (d. 2 May, 1998) were the unknown people who were killed fighting Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters in the Battle of Hogwarts, the final conflict of the Second Wizarding War. Their ranks included students who had refused to leave during the evacuations, Hogwarts staff and teachers, parents, and others who had rallied to defend Hogwarts when Voldemort moved against it.[1]
At the end of the battle, all of the bodies were placed together in the Great Hall. Their deaths were ultimately not in vain, as the surviving defenders held the line, Voldemort was defeated and killed, and the remaining Death Eaters disbanded permanently.[1]
Behind the scenes
Besides Severus Snape, Fred Weasley, Vincent Crabbe, Colin Creevey, Lavender Brown, Remus Lupin and Nymphadora Tonks, all the other casualties were unidentified individuals, although Gregory Goyle died in place of Crabbe in the final film as well. It is possible that the Unidentified Hogwarts students killed on the Seventh Floor and Unidentified wizard killed at the Quad battlements are part of the Fallen Fifty.
No Death Eaters were counted among the Fallen Fifty.
Remus Lupin is the single non-human casualty counted among the Fallen Fifty.
Harry Potter did not see anyone he recognised dead, besides those he named.[3] It is likely that half of the fallen would have been fellow students, the rest possibly members of the Order of the Phoenix, staff members, or residents of Hogsmeade.
There may well have been even more casualties than just fifty, but the bodies of these may not have been collected at that point, as Colin Creevey's body was discovered out on the school grounds by Oliver Wood and Neville Longbottom and as Hogwarts is such a large place it is unlikely that all bodies were retrieved and brought back to the Hall during that phase of the battle. In addition, we know that the Death Eaters created many explosions and fires, and some bodies may simply have never been found. Some might have also fallen into the ravines or been Transfigured.
It is possible that Harry did know people among the unnamed casualties, but that their names simply weren't mentioned so as not to clutter the narrative of the story's conclusion with a lengthy roll call of minor characters.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child (First identified as Fallen Fifty)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 36 (The Flaw in the Plan)
↑ Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Act Four, Scene Six
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 32 (The Elder Wand)