Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Harry Potter: Wizards Unite & Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
"Point me!"
This article is about one of the founders of Hogwarts. You may be looking for the house in Hogwarts, Gryffindor.
Godric Gryffindor
Biographical information
Born
Pre 976[1]
Godric's Hollow, West Country, England, Great Britain
Died
11th century (possibly)
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood[2]
Nationality
English
Title(s)
Founder[3]
Physical information
Species
Human[3]
Gender
Male[3]
Hair colour
Red[4]
Eye colour
Green[4]
Skin colour
Light[4]
Magical characteristics
Patronus
Non-corporeal[5]
Affiliation
Occupation
Teacher at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Founder of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
House
Gryffindor
Loyalty
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Gryffindor
[Source]
"We'll teach all those with brave deeds to their name."
— Gryffindor's preference of students[src]
Godric Gryffindor (fl. c. 993) was an English wizard and one of the four founders of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He was great friends with Salazar Slytherin, but opposed him when he later thought that they should not accept Muggle-born students at Hogwarts. It is unknown when he died. In his honour Gryffindor's birthplace became known as Godric's Hollow. Godric Gryffindor's portrait still remains at Hogwarts.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Hogwarts founder
1.3 Post-mortem
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Possessions
6 See also
7 Etymology
8 Behind the scenes
9 Appearances
10 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
"Bold Gryffindor, from wild moor..."
— The Sorting Hat singing about the founders' birthplaces[src]
Gryffindor hailed from a moor which is now known as Godric's Hollow[6], a small West Country village in England. He was described as being "the best duellist of his time".[7]
Hogwarts founder
"By Gryffindor, the bravest were prized far beyond the rest."
— Sorting Hat regarding Gryffindor[src]
Said to be one of "the four most brilliant witches and wizards of the time"[3], Godric Gryffindor founded Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in his adulthood, with friends Salazar Slytherin, Helga Hufflepuff, and Rowena Ravenclaw, though he later severed ties with Slytherin. He even appears to have carefully selected members of his own House.
Gryffindor is said to have praised courage, determination and strength of heart above all other qualities. Indeed, he selected students for his house based upon their daring and bravery, according to the Sorting Hat. He also was the most in favour of allowing Muggle-borns into the school.
The founders, however, were unsure of how they would sort the students when they were dead. To solve this, Gryffindor took off his hat and all four of them enchanted it so that it could sort the students long after their deaths. It was, from then on, known as the Sorting Hat.
Gryffindor was initially a close friend of Salazar Slytherin, but over time their friendship deteriorated. After a number of years of working peacefully together, Slytherin eventually grew apart from his fellow founders due to his distrust of Muggle-borns, and his belief that they should not be accepted into Hogwarts. When Slytherin failed to convince Gryffindor and the others to accept his ideas, he chose to leave the school. Unbeknownst to Gryffindor, his former friend built a hidden chamber within the castle, in which he hid a basilisk that his heir would later use to try and purge the school of Muggle-borns.
It is unknown how or when Gryffindor died, though he left an enduring legacy.
Post-mortem
A portrait of Gryffindor hung at Hogwarts Castle guarded a secret short cut between the seventh-floor landing of the Grand Staircase and the Entrance Hall side room. The password required to gain access to said shortcut was Starshine.[8] Gryffindor left two known relics: a goblin-made sword, adorned with rubies, and the Sorting Hat. The two items share a particular bond; whenever a "true Gryffindor" needs it, the Sword will let itself be pulled out of the hat. Godric's sword was capable of acquiring powers from those it had slain and thus was imbued with venom from Harry Potter's defeat of the Basilisk, making it suitable as a tool for destroying Voldemort's Horcruxes. Albus Dumbledore used it to destroy Marvolo Gaunt's Ring, Ron Weasley used it to eliminate Salazar Slytherin's Locket, and Neville Longbottom used it to kill Nagini, the final Horcrux.
Godric Gryffindor with his sword
Physical appearance
Godric Gryffindor's portrait depicts him as a tall, muscular man with a lion-like mane of wavy red hair and a beard to match. He had green eyes, peach-coloured skin and is often shown with his famous sword, with which he had great skill in wielding.
He has also been shown as wearing segmented red sword gauntlets adorned with gold fittings that are often depicted as being rather worn and burned-looking. He is also shown as wearing magnificent red robes with gold highlights and rather intricate designs on the sleeves. He is also frequently depicted with a rather powerful and stern gaze.
Personality and traits
Godric Gryffindor valued courage, determination, chivalry, and strength of heart, and was described as one of the four most brilliant witches and wizards of his time. He was also the most tolerant and accepting of Muggle-borns out of the Founders, a point which brought about the end of his friendship with Salazar Slytherin. He was very forward thinking due to his creating the Sorting Hat to preserve the selection of the students after his time. This showcases his cleverness and creativity.
He also had a versatile mindset as he chose to wield a sword as well as a wand, making him a rather dynamic man who deferred to the duelling style of his opponent, muggle and wizard alike. Going along with this, it shows that he was respectful and fair, choosing to wield a sword instead of magic against muggle combatants out of a sense of fair play as magic would be a most decidedly unbalanced weapon in a duel against a simple sword. In addition to showing his sense of fairness, his deference to the duelling style of opponent also shows a need to challenge himself, proving his worth and courage, which became one of the signature traits of his House at Hogwarts.
His threat to unsheathe and use his famous blade against Ragnuk the First and his followers shows that despite his noble heart and good intentions, that Godric was very much capable of taking the lives of sapient beings such as Goblins. This would not have been an uncommon trait for a man of his era or personality due to the constant violence that pervaded medieval Europe and the acceptability of duelling to the death among both wizard and muggles alike.
Magical abilities and skills
Duelling: Godric Gryffindor was said to be the greatest duellist of his time with considerable talent in martial magic, and was also highly skilled in Muggle duelling, using his sword in combat. His skill as a swordsman was such that he preferred to duel muggles with his sword instead of his magic, despite magic being the more decisive and powerful weapon.[9]
Charms: Godric was shown to be highly proficient in charm-work, as he helped enchant the Sorting Hat into a sentient magical artefact with personality, to sort students after his lifetime, with the help of the other founders. He was also capable of producing a non-corporeal Patronus,[5] a testament to his superior magical abilities as a wizard, given the immense difficulty of conjuring a Patronus.
Possessions
Wand: Gryffindor owned a wand made of an unknown wood, length, core, and flexibility.
Sword: Gryffindor owned a Goblin made sword made from Goblin-wrought silver. Gryffindor used this sword in Muggle duelling.
Sorting Hat: Gryffindor was said to have owned the Sorting Hat. He, alongside the other four founders, transfigured and enchanted the Sorting Hat into a sentient artefact to sort students into appropriate Hogwarts Houses after his lifetime.
See also
Rowena Ravenclaw
Helga Hufflepuff
Salazar Slytherin
Hogwarts founders
Sorting Hat
Godric Gryffindor's Sword
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Etymology
The name Godric is an Anglo-Saxon name in form, and can have several meanings, including, "he who rules with God" or "he who rules well".
His surname is a reference to the half-lion magical beast, the Griffin, a fierce, legendary beast with the body of a lion, and the head and wings of an eagle. The Hogwarts house named after him uses a lion as its symbol. Furthermore, the last part of his surname, "dor", is similar to both the French d'or, "made from gold", "golden", which is one of the colours of his Hogwarts House, or the suffix dore, which means "gift of," in which case the meaning of "Gryffindor" would be "gift of the Gryffin."
Gryffindor is also a pun on the golden griffin, which is a lion that only has eagle wings, so it has the head and front paws of a lion, and has golden fur and feathers. Even the French for Griffindor, Griffondor is a French homophone for the actual beast, Griffon d'Or.
Behind the scenes
A Portrait of Godric Gryffindor as seen in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Godric Gryffindor as a LEGO mini-figure
Godric Gryffindor was named the July 2007 "Wizard of the Month" on Rowling's website. "One of the four famous founders of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, Godric Gryffindor was the most accomplished dueller of his time, an enlightened fighter against Muggle-discrimination and the first owner of the celebrated Sorting Hat."
J.K. Rowling once jokingly stated that if Godric Gryffindor was still alive: he would be the Giant Squid that lives in Hogwarts lake, that would make him the biggest Animagus (and, quite possibly, the oldest) in the Wizarding world. At the eleventh hour of each night the squid would change back into Gryffindor, who would wander the school grounds before returning to his squid form. It should be noted that Rowling was sarcastically trying to make a point, so obviously this statement is not considered canon.
Godric Gryffindor is the only founder who is not mentioned to have any descendants, although for a time it was speculated that Harry Potter himself was a descendant of Gryffindor either through James Potter possibly because James hailed from Godric's hometown, or possibly through a line of Squibs to James' wife Lily Evans. However, this theory was later debunked by J. K. Rowling in an interview[10].
Gryffindor appears in the queue of the Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey ride inside of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at both Universal Studios Orlando and Universal Studios Hollywood as a portrait.
On the official website of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, Godric mentions that he is proud to have Harry Potter in his house and calls him "A remarkable young man".
Gryffindor's name and birthplace may allude to the Hardy Boys story "The Witchmaster's Key", which references the fictional village of Gruffinmoor.
The real-world Gryffindor family name is apparently of Welsh origin, although it spread to Ireland in the 12th century.[11]
A new species of spider was named after Gryffindor, Eriovixia gryffindori. The name was chosen due to the spider's triangular body's resemblance to the Sorting Hat, of which Gryffindor was the first owner.[12]
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 25 images related to Godric Gryffindor.
Godric Gryffindor in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Mentioned only) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Possible appearance) (Appears in portrait(s))
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (Mentioned only)
Pottermore
Wizarding World
J. K. Rowling's official site
LEGO Harry Potter
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7[13]
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Appears in portrait(s))
Harry Potter: The Creature Vault (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Appears in portrait(s)) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Appears in portrait(s))
Notes and references
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 9 (The Writing on the Wall) - "You all know, of course, that Hogwarts was founded over a thousand years ago - the precise date is uncertain - by the four greatest witches and wizards of the age." Binns says this late in the year 1992. Given that Gryffindor would be of age by the school's founding, the latest he could be born is 976.
↑ Given Slytherin's hatred of Muggle-borns, it is unlikely he would work with one.
↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 9 (The Writing on the Wall)
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 J. K. Rowling's official site
↑ 5.0 5.1 LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
↑ Wizard of the Month, July 2007, on J.K. Rowling's official website
↑ Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) - PC version
↑ Writing by J.K. Rowling: "The Sword of Gryffindor" at Wizarding World
↑ http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2005/0705-tlc_mugglenet-anelli-3.htm
↑ "Gryffindor Family Crest and Name History" at houseofnames.com
↑ http://www.cnn.com/2016/12/14/world/spider-india-harry-potter-hat-gryffindor/index.html
↑ Gryffindor is available in the Nintendo DS version of LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7. For other devices, he is available in the "Downloadable Character Pack" DLC for the game.
Preceded by:
None Head of Gryffindor House
Succeeded by:
Unknown, eventually
Unidentified Gryffindor lady
Preceded by:
Ragnuk the First Owner of Gryffindor's Sword
Succeeded by:
Unknown, eventually Headmaster of Hogwarts
Preceded by:
None Owner of the Sorting Hat
Succeeded by:
Hogwarts
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Hogwarts Houses
Namesake Founders
Godric Gryffindor · Helga Hufflepuff · Rowena Ravenclaw · Salazar Slytherin
Heads of House
Minerva McGonagall · Pomona Sprout · Filius Flitwick · Horace Slughorn
House Ghosts
Nearly Headless Nick · Fat Friar · Grey Lady · Bloody Baron
Hogwarts Castle
Locations on the ground floor
Astronomy Tower courtyard · Bean Bonus Room · Boys' toilets · Room 234-00 · Central tower courtyard · Chamber off the Great Hall · Chamber of Reception · Classroom Eleven · Classroom 1B · Corridor off the Entrance Hall · Entrance Hall · Great Hall · Great Hall balcony · Ground Floor Corridor · Herbology Store · House Point Ceremony Chamber · Link Building · Marble Staircase · Middle Courtyard · Northern Courtyard · Northern Courtyard Annex · North Tower courtyard · Out Of Bounds · Oxford Corridor · Paved grounds · Portrait Room · Side chamber · Staffroom · Staffroom corridor · Storage Cupboard · Storeroom · Storeroom courtyard · Suspension Bridge · Temporary Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom · Transfiguration department · Viaduct Courtyard · Viaduct Entrance · Viaduct · Viaduct Courtyard Gatehouses · West Tower courtyard · Suspension Bridge foyer · The Quad
Portraits, statues and other artwork located on the ground floor
Brian Gagwilde · Circe · Gargoyles at the staff room entrance · George von Rheticus · Giffard Abbott · Glanmore Peakes · Godric Gryffindor · Google Stump · Greta Catchlove · Henry Bumblepuft · Lonely Male Gargoyle · Lonely Male Gargoyle's friend · Medieval couple · Merwyn the Malicious · Mirabella Plunkett · Miserable Female Gargoyle · Norvel Twonk · Old Posh Baron · People watching Quidditch · Staring Portrait · Professor Swoopstikes · Temeritus Shanks · Timothy the Timid · Violet · Architect of Hogwarts · First Headmaster of Hogwarts · Jocunda Sykes · Sarcastic Male Gargoyle · Portrait of a girl with flowers · Wizard with a walrus moustache
Hogwarts Castle
Locations on the seventh floor
Attic · Bean Challenge rooms · Classroom 7B · Classroom 7C · Dark Tower topmost cell · Disused bathroom · Divination Classroom · Fat Lady's Corridor · Filius Flitwick's office · Grumpy Staircase · Gryffindor Tower reading room · Gryffindor girls' staircase · Gryffindor Boys' Dormitory · Hall of Hexes · Knights' Room · North Wing · Porticus Olidus · Pungent Passage · Room of Requirement · Runic Corridor · Seventh-floor corridor · Sybill Trelawney's office · Divination corridor · Staircase to the seventh-floor corridor
Portraits, statues and other artwork located on the seventh floor
A Young Professor McGonagall · Barnabas the Barmy · Bridget Wenlock · Sir Cadogan · Caged monkey · Edward Rabnott · Elephant · Elizabeth Burke · Fat Lady · Flowering almond trees · George von Rheticus · Giraffe · Godric Gryffindor · Healers · Hippopotamus · Journeying wizards · Lachlan the Lanky · Mother and baby · Oraclitus Spheer · Staring Portrait · Three young ladies · Tiger · Two lovers in a graveyard · Valeria Myriadd · Wailing Egyptians · Witch flying to the moon · Wizard in black flowing robes · Wizard in blue · Wizard with a broomstick · Wolfhound
Chocolate Frog Cards
Gold cards
Armando Dippet · Albus Dumbledore · Barberus Bragge · Bertie Bott · Carlotta Pinkstone · Dzou Yen · Godric Gryffindor · Hermione Granger · Herpo the Foul · Helga Hufflepuff · Harry Potter · Montague Knightley · Phillipus von Hohenheim · Roderick Plumpton · Rowena Ravenclaw · Ronald Weasley · Salazar Slytherin
Silver cards
Alberic Grunnion · Alberta Toothill · Andros the Invincible · Artemisia Lufkin · Blenheim Stalk · Bowman Wright · Chauncey Oldridge · Circe · Cliodna · Crispin Cronk · Cyprian Youdle · Daisy Dodderidge · Derwent Shimpling · Donaghan Tremlett · Dunbar Oglethorpe · Dymphna Furmage · Elfrida Clagg · Felix Summerbee · Fulbert the Fearful · Gaspard Shingleton · Gideon Crumb · Glenda Chittock · Gondoline Oliphant · Gregory the Smarmy · Gwenog Jones · Honoria Nutcombe · Ignatia Wildsmith · Joscelind Wadcock · Kirley Duke · Laverne de Montmorency · Leopoldina Smethwyck · Maeve · Mirabella Plunkett · Mopsus · Morgan le Fay · Oswald Beamish · Sacharissa Tugwood · Thaddeus Thurkell · Thurkell brothers · Wendelin the Weird · Xavier Rastrick
Bronze cards
Adalbert Waffling · Almeric Sawbridge · Archibald Alderton · Balfour Blane · Beatrix Bloxam · Beaumont Marjoribanks · Bridget Wenlock · Burdock Muldoon · Cassandra Vablatsky · Celestina Warbeck · Cornelius Agrippa · Devlin Whitehorn · Dorcas Wellbeloved · Edgar Stroulger · Elladora Ketteridge · Ethelred the Ever-Ready · Flavius Belby · Gifford Ollerton · Glanmore Peakes · Glover Hipworth · Greta Catchlove · Grogan Stump · Gulliver Pokeby · Gunhilda de Gorsemoor · Havelock Sweeting · Hengist of Woodcroft · Heathcote Barbary · Herman Wintringham · Hesper Starkey · Jocunda Sykes · Justus Pilliwickle · Merlin · Merton Graves · Merwyn the Malicious · Miranda Goshawk · Mungo Bonham · Musidora Barkwith · Myron Wagtail · Newton Scamander · Norvel Twonk · Orsino Thruston · Perpetua Fancourt · Quong Po · Roland Kegg · Stoddard Withers · Tilly Toke · Uric the Oddball · Yardley Platt
Famous Vampires cards
Blodwyn Bludd · Vlad Drakul · Amarillo Lestoat · Carmilla Sanguina · Herbert Varney
Famous Hags cards
Babayaga · Malodora Grymm · Old Mother Hubbard · Cordelia Misericordia · Leticia Somnolens
Famous Giants cards
Bran the Bloodthirsty · Cyclops · Goliath · Morholt · Hengist of Upper Barnton
Famous Goblins cards
Alguff the Awful · Eargit the Ugly · Gringott · Ug the Unreliable · Urg the Unclean
Dragon cards
Common Welsh Green · Hebridean Black · Hungarian Horntail · Norwegian Ridgeback · Romanian Longhorn
Beast cards
Billywig · Bowtruckle · Doxy · Double-ended Newt · Giant Purple Toad · Giant Squid · Gnome · Gytrash · Imp · Kelpie · Manticore · Mountain Troll · Streeler · Phoenix · Unicorn