Hannah Abbott
Biographical information
Born
Between 1 September 1979 and 31 August 1980[1]
Blood status
Half-blood[2]
Marital status
Married[3]
Nationality
British or Irish[4]
Title(s)
Prefect[5]
Physical information
Species
Human[6]
Gender
Female[6]
Hair colour
Blonde[7]
Skin colour
Light[7]
Relationship information
Family members
Mrs Abbott (mother) †[8]
Neville Longbottom (husband)[3]
Alice Longbottom (mother-in-law)
Frank Longbottom (father-in-law)
Augusta Longbottom (paternal grandmother-in-law)
Longbottom family (in-laws)
Abbott (possible relative) †
Giffard Abbott (possible relative) †
Magical characteristics
Boggart
Lord Voldemort[9]
Patronus
Non-corporeal[10]
Affiliation
Occupation
Landlady of the Leaky Cauldron[3] (c.1998-2014)
Healer[3] (2014-?)
House
Hufflepuff[6]
Loyalty
Abbott family
Longbottom family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Hufflepuff
Dumbledore's Army
Leaky Cauldron[3] (2014-?)
[Source]
"All the fifth years were suffering from stress to some degree, but Hannah Abbott became the first to receive a Calming Draught from Madam Pomfrey after she burst into tears during Herbology and sobbed that she was too stupid to take exams and wanted to leave school now."
— Hannah's easily flustered personality[src]
Hannah Abbott (b. 1979/1980)[1] was a half-blood[2] witch and a member of the Abbott family. In 1991 she started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was sorted into Hufflepuff House.[6] Hannah was in the same year as the famous Harry Potter.
In her fifth year, she became both a prefect and a member of Dumbledore's Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter. In 1996, Hannah was pulled out of school after her mother was murdered by Death Eaters, but she returned the following year and was once again a member of the D.A. She fought in the Battle of Hogwarts on 2 May, 1998.
Later in life, Hannah married fellow classmate Neville Longbottom and became landlady of the Leaky Cauldron, which the couple lived above. She eventually trained as a healer and applied for the job of Matron at Hogwarts.[3]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Hogwarts years (1991-1998)
1.2.1 First year
1.2.2 Second year
1.2.3 Third year
1.2.4 Fourth year
1.2.5 Fifth year
1.2.6 Sixth year
1.2.7 Seventh year
1.3 Later life (1998-2014)
2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Possessions
6 Relationships
6.1 Neville Longbottom
6.2 Ernie Macmillan
6.3 Justin Finch-Fletchley
6.4 Susan Bones
7 Etymology
8 Behind the scenes
9 Appearances
10 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Hannah was born in Great Britain or Ireland in 1979 or 1980.[1] She was a member of the pure-blood wizarding Abbott family that was one of the so-called Sacred Twenty-Eight,[11] though she herself was a half-blood,[2] indicating she also had some Muggle heritage.
Hogwarts years (1991-1998)
First year
Professor McGonagall: "When I call your name, you will come up and sit on the stool to be Sorted. Abbott, Hannah."
Sorting Hat: "Hufflepuff!"
— Hannah Abbott is Sorted[src]
Hannah's sorting in 1991
Hannah began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on 1 September, 1991, along with Harry Potter.[6]
Since Hannah's surname, Abbott, was the first alphabetically, she was the first new student in her year to be sorted into her house during the Welcoming Feast. She was Sorted into Hufflepuff House, along with other new students Ernie Macmillan, Susan Bones, and Justin Finch-Fletchley.[6] She shared a dormitory with her fellow Hufflepuff classmates; Megan Jones, Susan Bones, and others.
Second year
Hannah: "You definitely think it is Potter, then, Ernie?"
Ernie: "Hannah, he’s a Parselmouth. Everyone knows that’s the mark of a Dark Wizard. Have you ever heard of a decent one who could talk to snakes? They called Slytherin himself Serpent-tongue"
Hannah: "He always seems so nice, though, and, well, he’s the one who made You-Know-Who disappear. He can’t be all bad, can he?"
— Hannah, Ernie and several Hufflepuff students discussing Harry Potter[src]
Hannah and Ernie studying with other Hufflepuffs
In 1992, Hannah's second year, when the Chamber of Secrets had been reopened, Hannah was one of the many students who believed that Harry Potter was the Heir of Slytherin after it became known that he was a Parselmouth. She was initially sceptical, saying that Harry "always seemed so nice", but was eventually convinced by her friend Ernie Macmillan that Harry was the one that had attacked Muggle-born students around Hogwarts, including her housemate and friend Justin Finch-Fletchley, which didn't go down well with Hannah, unsettling her.[12]
Hannah during a second year Transfiguration lesson
When Hermione was attacked by the Basilisk, Ernie and Hannah apologised, knowing Harry would never harm her. Ernie asked Harry if he believed that Draco Malfoy was the Heir of Slytherin, to which Harry replied with a quick no, causing both Ernie and Hannah to stare.[13] It was later revealed that Malfoy was not the culprit after Harry defeated Tom Riddle, destroying his diary horcrux and Slytherin's basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets. Hannah was present at the End-of-Term Feast, after all the students who were petrified were returned to their normal state.[14]
Third year
"The school talked of nothing but Sirius Black for the next few days. The theories about how he had entered the castle became wilder and wilder; Hannah Abbott, from Hufflepuff, spent much of their next Herbology class telling anyone who’d listen that Black could turn into a flowering shrub."
— Hannah's wild theory about Sirius Black[src]
In 1993, her third year, when news got out that Sirius Black had escaped from Azkaban, Hannah held the belief that Black could transform himself into a flowering shrub to avoid detection, and would tell this theory to anyone who would listen.[15] Even though her theory of transforming into a shrub was incorrect, Sirius Black did in fact use a transformation to avoid detection and escape Azkaban; however, his transformation was into the form of a dog. Hannah's belief that Sirius could transform into a flowering shrub was likely to have originated from her liking of Herbology and the Professor of Herbology, Pomona Sprout, who was her Head of House.
Fourth year
Pomona Sprout: "An excellent remedy for the more stubborn forms of acne, bubotuber pus. Should stop students resorting to desperate measures to rid themselves of pimples."
Hannah Abbott: "Like poor Eloise Midgen. She tried to curse hers off."
Pomona Sprout: "Silly girl. But Madam Pomfrey fixed her nose back on in the end."
— Hannah and Professor Sprout during a fourth year Herbology class[src]
Hannah and Ernie Macmillan harassing Harry with their Support Cedric badges
During 1994, Hannah's fourth year, Hannah helped collect Bubotuber pus in Herbology, which Madam Pomfrey used for treating acne to prevent students from taking more desperate measures. Hannah noted that Eloise Midgen had tried to curse her pimples off.[16]
This year Hogwarts hosted the Triwizard Tournament and Hannah's fellow Hufflepuff Cedric Diggory was one of the Triwizard finalists. Hannah fully supported him during the tournament's tasks, as he was also in Hufflepuff. Hannah was among the many Hufflepuffs who were displeased when Harry appeared to be usurping Cedric's rightful place, by becoming the second Hogwarts champion during the Triwizard Tournament, and she showed support only for her fellow Hufflepuff.[17]
Hannah with Ernie watching the Third Task of the tournament
This was because Hufflepuff never received much attention, and she, along with many others, felt Harry was taking the glory away from Diggory.[17] To show her support, she wore a Support CEDRIC DIGGORY — the REAL Hogwarts Champion! badge that was able to change to read POTTER STINKS.[18]
Again, as in her second year, Hannah spent a lot of her free time revising in the Great Hall with Ernie Macmillan, presumably studying for her O.W.L.s which were coming up the following year. The two of them also attended at least one Hogsmeade weekend and were swapping Chocolate Frog cards at a table at The Three Broomsticks.[17]
Later in this same year, Cedric Diggory was murdered by Lord Voldemort, and Harry won the Triwizard Tournament, but this did not matter to Hannah, as Cedric's death made the winner rather irrelevant. Hannah was then presumably amongst the students that believed Harry Potter's claims that Lord Voldemort had indeed returned, and that the Second Wizarding War had really broken out.
Fifth year
Hannah: "I — I need to think. To remember! Oh, I'm never going to finish my revision!"
Hermione Granger: "Well, we can help you with one subject — we're having our first Defence Against the Dark Arts meeting."
Hannah: "M-meeting? But Umbridge has banned clubs. She'll see us going there! I'll fail my O.W.L.s! I'll be expelled! We'll all be expelled!"
— Discussion of the D.A.'s meeting times and O.W.L.s[src]
The first ever meeting of Dumbledore's Army, that Hannah attended
In 1995, her fifth year, Hannah was made a prefect for Hufflepuff House, along with Ernie Macmillan.[5] Shortly after the beginning of term, it became apparent that Dolores Umbridge was not going to be teaching practical means of Defence Against the Dark Arts, and Hannah decided to join Dumbledore's Army, a secret Defence Against the Dark Arts group started by Harry Potter, Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley.[19]
She was also one of the minority who believed that Lord Voldemort was back, likely due to the fact that Cedric Diggory, a student of her house, was claimed by Harry Potter to have been murdered by the Dark Lord in the previous year.
Dumbledore's Army in circle
The pressure of studying for her O.W.L.s had definitely got to Hannah, and she broke down in tears during a Herbology class, after claiming to be too stupid to take her exams. She was then taken to the Hospital Wing, where Madam Pomfrey treated her with a Calming Draught.[20] Despite being treated, Hannah still managed to let pressure get the better of her and during her Transfiguration practical exam, she accidentally multiplied a ferret into a flock of flamingos.[21]
Hannah made it through the rest of her exams, and, approaching the end of the year, Hannah was one of the D.A. members who aided Harry when he was attacked by Draco Malfoy, Gregory Goyle, and Vincent Crabbe at the end of their fifth year, proving her loyalty and friendship still to Dumbledore's Army, even after its initial purpose had been rendered redundant.[22]
Sixth year
"There had been a horrible incident the day before, when Hannah Abbott had been taken out of Herbology to be told her mother had been found dead. They had not seen Hannah since."
— The death of Hannah's mother[src]
Sixth year Apparition lesson
In 1996, Hannah returned to her sixth year at Hogwarts. Early on during her sixth year, Hannah was told during a Herbology lesson that her mother, Mrs Abbott, had been murdered earlier in the day, presumably by Death Eaters. As a result of this, Hannah was subsequently pulled out of Hogwarts and did not return for the rest of the year.[8] She was not in school at the time of Headmaster Albus Dumbledore's demise at the hands of Severus Snape.[23] It is possible, as a result of missing most of her sixth year, Hannah would be required to retake the year's courses.
Seventh year
"Harry cast more Shield Charms, and Voldemort's would-be victims, Seamus Finnigan and Hannah Abbott, darted past him into the Great Hall where they joined the fight already flourishing inside it."
— Hannah escapes death in the second half of the final battle[src]
Hannah watching Neville Longbottom stand up to Death Eaters when they storm the Hogwarts Express
Hannah was compelled to return to Hogwarts in 1997, as Lord Voldemort had taken over the Ministry of Magic and attendance at Hogwarts had become mandatory for all pure or half-blood students; Muggle-borns had to go before a Muggle-Born Registration Commission prior to being admitted to Hogwarts. It is possible, as Hannah had missed her previous year of education, she would be made to resit the year, making her technically a sixth year student once again. Hannah was present on the train when it was stormed by Death Eaters in search of Harry Potter. She also witnessed fellow classmate Neville stand up to them and inform them that Harry was not aboard the train.[24]
Whilst back at Hogwarts, Hannah became a member of the revived Dumbledore's Army, now operating under the leadership of Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood, and Ginny Weasley in the absence of Harry, Ron and Hermione. United once again, Dumbledore's Army continued to train students in battle and defence, and the group ran riot around Hogwarts, making the life for new Headmaster Severus Snape and Death Eaters Amycus Carrow and Alecto Carrow difficult.[25]
Hannah fighting during the Battle of Hogwarts[26]
When Harry Potter returned to Hogwarts on 1 May 1998, Hannah stayed at the school and fought in the Battle of Hogwarts, battling against Death Eaters and Voldemort. Initially, she was part of the group of students led by Fred and George Weasley who were charged with defending the secret passages into Hogwarts from invading Death Eaters.[27] Later, on the second day of battle, fighting resumed and Harry saved her and Seamus Finnigan with a Shield Charm when Lord Voldemort sent a curse their way. Hannah stood witness to the final demise of Voldemort and survived the battle.[28]
Later life (1998-2014)
Having missed a year in education it is likely that, like Hermione Granger, Hannah would resit the same year and they would graduate together in 1999.
Some time before 2014, Hannah married her former classmate and leader of the student rebellion, Neville Longbottom. She became the landlady at the Leaky Cauldron, replacing Tom, and the couple lived together above the pub. Neville's students considered the fact they lived above the pub "cool".[29]
Hannah eventually gave up being landlady of the Leaky Cauldron and decided to train as a healer. She applied for the job of Matron at Hogwarts. On 8 July 2014, Rita Skeeter scathingly reported that she and Neville enjoyed "a little more Ogden's Firewhisky than most would expect from custodians of our children".[3] Since Rita enjoyed fabricating information to slander people, it is likely that her statement is untrue.
Physical description
Hannah was described as a pink-faced girl with blonde hair. In her younger years, she usually wore pigtails.[7]
Personality and traits
Hannah appeared to have a naive streak since she was easily convinced by Ernie that Harry might be the Heir of Slytherin, despite having always considered him to be nice.[12] She also believed that Sirius Black could turn into a flowering shrub (although, given that he was, in fact, an Animagus, the belief wasn't too far from the truth).[15]
Hannah was easily flustered and appeared to lack self-confidence, as was evidenced by her breakdown in Herbology and her claims of being stupid.[20] It seemed that, when under pressure, she was prone to making mistakes.[21] Despite this, Hannah was a loyal friend and showed her bravery firstly by joining Dumbledore's Army,[19] and then fighting in the defence of Hogwarts.[27]
Magical abilities and skills
Defence Against the Dark Arts: Hannah joined Dumbledore's Army in her fifth year,[19] and learned how to cast various defensive and offensive spells, under the masterful teaching of Harry Potter.[22]
Duelling: Hannah helped retaliate against Draco Malfoy and his friends when they tried to gang up on and attack Harry Potter, where she and her friends managed to jinx and hex them into having the appearances of slugs.[22] She also impressively fought in and survived the Battle of Hogwarts, showing her to have been an excellent duellist with considerable proficiency in martial magic.[27][28]
Herbology: Hannah achieved a high mark on her O.W.L. exam, and in her sixth year she attended N.E.W.T. Herbology classes, showing her proficiency in the subject.[8]
Healing magic: In her adulthood, Hannah trained to become a Healer and applied for the position of the Hogwarts Matron, meaning she would have been very accomplished and learned in healing magic, including with healing spells, potions and other magical remedies.[3]
Charms: Hannah was capable of conjuring a non-corporeal Patronus,[10] a mark of superior magical ability given how difficult the said charm is to perform. She likely learned how to cast the spell whilst attending Dumbledore's Army meetings.
Possessions
Wand: Hannah owned a wand, which was of an unknown length, wood and core material. Like most witches and wizards in Great Britain, she presumably purchased it from Ollivanders in Diagon Alley, London, prior to starting her first year at Hogwarts in 1991. She would have wielded her wand throughout her school life, and during the Battle of Hogwarts in 1998.
Leaky Cauldron: After graduating from Hogwarts, Hannah eventually become the Landlady of the Leaky Cauldron, the popular wizarding pub in Diagon Alley, thus becoming its owner.
Prefect badge: Hannah owned a Hufflepuff Prefect badge, prior to becoming a Prefect at the start of the 1995–1996 school year, which she would have worn during her Prefect duties.
Potter Stinks badge: At the start of the Triwizard Tournament in 1994, Hannah owned and wore one of these enchanted badges to show her contempt for Harry Potter becoming the second Hogwarts champion, believing he was stealing Cedric Diggory's limelight. She stopped wearing hers after becoming a supporter of Harry during the Tournament.
Relationships
Neville Longbottom
Neville Longbottom, her future husband
Although it appeared that Hannah and Neville Longbottom were rarely ever together during their school days, and given that Hannah supported Cedric Diggory in their fourth year, their friendship probably evolved from their time in Dumbledore's Army together, and during the student rebellion during their seventh year, as well as just being in the same year and sharing classes for so long — particularly Herbology, Neville's best subject, which the Gryffindors shared with the Hufflepuffs.
It is possible that Hannah and Neville both found comfort in each other during their seventh year, since in the previous year Hannah's mother had been killed by Death Eaters, and Neville would understand how she would be feeling as Death Eaters tortured his parents into insanity. Hannah joined Dumbledore's Army under the leadership of Neville, and in the absence of Harry, and proved her loyalty to him throughout the Battle of Hogwarts.
Following the Second Wizarding War, Hannah and Neville became closer and eventually married. Neville became the new Professor of Herbology at Hogwarts, taking over from Professor Sprout, whilst Hannah became the new landlady of the Leaky Cauldron, taking over from Tom. The couple lived together above the pub, a fact that Neville's students thought was "cool".[29]
Hannah eventually applied for the job of Matron at Hogwarts, which could have brought her closer to Neville, if she managed to gain the position.
Ernie Macmillan
Ernie Macmillan, her friend and house mate
Hannah and Ernie Macmillan were close friends during their time at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, both having been sorted into the house of Hufflepuff during their first year. During their second year they both discussed the possibility of Harry being the Heir of Slytherin after the Chamber of Secrets had been declared open. Hannah had her doubts, as she thought Harry was nice, but Ernie was easily able to sway her opinion.[12]
Both Hannah and Ernie shared the hobby of collecting Chocolate Frog Cards.[17] They also both supported Cedric Diggory as the School Champion during the Triwizard Tournament, as many Hufflepuffs and even Ravenclaws did, and both shared a certain irritation with Harry Potter, the other champion.[17] In 1995, they both became the Hufflepuff prefects[5] and joined Dumbledore's Army.[19] Unlike Hannah, Ernie was able to keep his cool during his O.W.L.s.[21]
Justin Finch-Fletchley
Hannah and Justin Finch-Fletchley were close friends during their time at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, both having been sorted into the house of Hufflepuff during their first year. During their second year they both discussed the possibility of Harry being the Heir of Slytherin after the Chamber of Secrets had been declared open.[12] Both Hannah and Justin joined Dumbledore's Army.[19]
Susan Bones
Hannah and Susan were roommates and friends during Hogwarts, and sat together in the train while going to Hogwarts.[24] Both joined Dumbledore's Army and both fought in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Etymology
"Hannah" is from the Hebrew name חַנָּה (Channah) which meant "favour" or "grace". Hannah was the mother of the prophet Samuel in the Old Testament. As an English name, Hannah was not regularly used until after the Protestant Reformation.[30]
"Hannah" sounds almost identical to the Japanese word for flower, 花 (romanised "Hana"). As such, it could be taken as part of the pattern of flower names, which includes Lily J. Potter, Lily L. Potter, Rose Granger-Weasley, Fleur Delacour, Petunia Evans and others. However, it is very likely that this is simply a coincidence, given that the name is of Hebrew origin and means something else.
"Abbott" is a Middle English surname.[31] An abbot was a church position below the pope, archbishops and bishops in the Church hierarchy in the Middle Ages. The ancestors of people with the surname Abbott probably were abbots or abbesses in medieval times (900-1300).
Behind the scenes
Hannah as she appears on Pottermore
During the O.W.L.s, Hannah Abbott was doing her Transfiguration practical at the same time as Harry Potter. This is odd as the examinations are done by surname, meaning that Hannah should have finished a while earlier. One possible explanation is that the lists for that examination were mistakenly compiled by first name. Another is that Hannah's exam took an unusually long time, possibly due to her nerves.[21]
Harry Potter and Hermione Granger saw the grave of someone named "Abbott" when they visited Godric's Hollow in 1997. This may have been the grave of a relative of Hannah's, perhaps indicating that her family, like the Potters, come from Godric's Hollow.
While Hannah's mother was revealed to be killed by the Death Eaters, her father's fate was left unknown, indicating that he was either alive or deceased by 1996. So, Hannah may have possibly been left an orphan after her mother's death. Alternatively, her father could have been the one who pulled her out of Hogwarts.
Hannah Abbott as she appears in the Order of the Phoenix video game
Hannah Abbott was portrayed by Charlotte Skeoch in the film adaptations of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, as well as voicing the character for the game Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. She was portrayed by Louisa Warren in the film adaptations of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in a background role.
She is one of the Original Forty students listed by J. K. Rowling along with Harry Potter, Hermione Granger and Ronald Weasley.
From early production notes viewed in the 2001 television special, Harry Potter and Me, Hannah was supposed to be a Muggle-born witch.[32] However, J. K. Rowling stated in an interview that she always considered Hannah to be a pure-blood. To compromise, she was officially made a half-blood.[2]
In the credits of the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, she is listed as "Hannah Hufflepuff".[33]
In the sorting scene in the the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Hermione Granger gets called up first instead of Hannah Abbott.
An Alice Abbott was accused of witchcraft during the Northamptonshire witch trials of 1612.
J.K. Rowling has said that Hannah's job at the Leaky Cauldron is a pretty cool career and that it's quite cool that Neville married her.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 46 images related to Hannah Abbott.
Hannah Abbott in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Hannah Abbott in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (video game) (Appears on the Collectible Card)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Name appears on parchment)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (video game) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (video game)
Harry Potter and Me (Mentioned only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
LEGO Harry Potter
Pottermore
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 7 (The Sorting Hat) - She was sorted on 1 September 1991 with Harry Potter, so she must have been eleven years old by this time.
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 PotterCast 130 transcript
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 DUMBLEDORE'S ARMY REUNITES AT QUIDDITCH WORLD CUP FINAL (Archived)
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
5.0 5.1 5.2 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 10 (Luna Lovegood)
↑
6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 7 (The Sorting Hat)
↑
7.0 7.1 7.2 Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 7 (The Sorting Hat) - "“Abbott, Hannah!” A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of line"
↑
8.0 8.1 8.2 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 11 (Hermione's Helping Hand)
↑ LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
↑
10.0 10.1 LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
↑ Writing by J.K. Rowling: "Pure-Blood" at Wizarding World
↑
12.0 12.1 12.2 12.3 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 11 (The Duelling Club)
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Chapter 15 (Aragog)
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)
↑
15.0 15.1 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Chapter 9 (Grim Defeat)
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 13 (Mad-Eye Moody)
↑
17.0 17.1 17.2 17.3 17.4 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 19 (The Hungarian Horntail)
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) - Chapter 14 (Ferret Boy)
↑
19.0 19.1 19.2 19.3 19.4 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 16 (In The Hog's Head)
↑
20.0 20.1 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 27 (The Centaur and the Sneak)
↑
21.0 21.1 21.2 21.3 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 31 (O.W.L.s)
↑
22.0 22.1 22.2 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 38 (The Second War Begins)
↑ Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 27 (The Lightning-Struck Tower)
↑
24.0 24.1 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 29 (The Lost Diadem)
↑ This unnamed Hufflepuff girl, who appears during the Skirmish in the Viaduct Courtyard, was voiced by Charlotte Skeoch, the same actress that plays Hannah Abbott in the Harry Potter films.
↑
27.0 27.1 27.2 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 31 (The Battle of Hogwarts)
↑
28.0 28.1 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 36 (The Flaw in the Plan)
↑
29.0 29.1 "J. K. Rowling at Carnegie Hall Reveals Dumbledore is Gay; Neville Marries Hannah Abbott, and Much More" at The Leaky Cauldron.org
↑ http://www.behindthename.com/name/hannah
↑ http://www.wordnik.com/words/Abbott
↑ Harry Potter and Me - (see this image)
↑ http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0295297/trivia
Preceded by:
Tom Landlady of the Leaky Cauldron
Unknown Succeeded by:
Incumbent
Preceded by:
Unknown, eventually
Jane Court Female prefect of Hufflepuff House
(along with two other female Hufflepuffs in different years taking the post)
1995–1998 Succeeded by:
Unknown
The Leaky Cauldron
Founder Daisy Dodderidge
Owners Tom (formerly) · Hannah Abbott Residents Neville Longbottom
Employees
Maids Day maid · Night maid · Young maid Others Bartender · Cleaner · Cook · Male toilet fixer
1 Diagon Alley, England, Great Britain

Dumbledore's Army
Founders
Harry Potter · Hermione Granger · Ronald Weasley
Leaders
Harry Potter · Neville Longbottom · Luna Lovegood · Ginny Weasley
Members
Gryffindor Katie Bell · Lavender Brown · Colin Creevey · Dennis Creevey · Seamus Finnigan · Angelina Johnson · Lee Jordan · Cormac McLaggen · Parvati Patil · Alicia Spinnet · Dean Thomas · Romilda Vane · Fred Weasley · George Weasley · Nigel Wolpert · Unidentified female · Unidentified female (II)
Ravenclaw Terry Boot · Cho Chang · Michael Corner · Marietta Edgecombe · Anthony Goldstein · Padma Patil · Maisy Reynolds · Unidentified male · Unidentified male (II) · Unidentified female
Hufflepuff Hannah Abbott · Susan Bones · Justin Finch-Fletchley · Ernie Macmillan · Zacharias Smith · Leanne · Unidentified female
Unknown House Luca Caruso · Alice Tolipan
Allies and other affiliations
Order of the Phoenix · Hogwarts staff · Augusta Longbottom · Andromeda Tonks · Ted Tonks · Percy Weasley · Oliver Wood · Grawp · Dobby · Winky · Hogwarts house-elves · Forbidden Forest Centaur colony · Hogwarts Hippogriff herd · Hogwarts Ghosts · Hogwarts students · Hogwarts Thestral herd
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Head Boys and Girls
Albus Dumbledore · Tom Riddle · Minerva McGonagall · James Potter · Lily Evans · Bill Weasley · Jacob's sibling · Corey Hayden · Percy Weasley · Teddy Lupin
Prefects
Hannah Abbott · Penelope Clearwater · Angelica Cole · Jane Court · Chester Davies · Cedric Diggory · Albus Dumbledore · Gemma Farley · Jake Flinton · Anthony Goldstein · Hermione Granger · Nicolas Grimmett · Robert Hawking · Robert Hilliard · Remus Lupin · Ernie Macmillan · Draco Malfoy · Lucius Malfoy · Minerva McGonagall · Cyril Meakin · Eric Murley · Pansy Parkinson · Padma Patil · Damian Perriss · Tom Riddle · Felix Rosier · Edmund Spiers · Jonathan Spratt · Kevin Sterndale · Terry Strickland · Marcus Turner · Gabriel Truman · Bill Weasley · Charlie Weasley · Percy Weasley · Ron Weasley · Ryan Westrup · Mervyn Wynch · Unidentified Gryffindor Prefect (I) · Unidentified Gryffindor Prefect (II) · Unidentified Ravenclaw Prefect (I) · Unidentified Ravenclaw Prefect (II) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (I) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (II) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (III)