Herbert Chorley
Biographical information
Born
Before 1979 (most likely)
Blood status
Muggle[1]
Nationality
British[1]
Title(s)
Junior minister[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Junior minister in the British Government[1]
Loyalty
British Government[1]
[Source]
Rufus Scrimgeour: "Now, about Herbert Chorley, your Junior Minister. The one who has been entertaining the public by impersonating a duck."
Muggle Prime Minister: "What about him?"
Rufus Scrimgeour: "He has clearly reacted to a poorly performed Imperius Curse. It’s addled his brains, but he could still be dangerous."
Muggle Prime Minister: "He’s only quacking! Surely a bit of a rest... Maybe go easy on the drink..."
— Rufus Scrimgeour and the Muggle Prime Minister discussing Chorley's peculiar mental state[src]
Herbert Chorley was a Muggle Junior minister in 1996. He was placed under a botched Imperius Curse, leaving him acting like a duck. Ministry of Magic officials placed him in St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries for treatment. It was stated that he nearly strangled three of the healers, and therefore had to be removed from Muggle society for a while.[1] It is unknown if he ever recovered.
Etymology
The name "Herbert" is derived from the Germanic elements hari "army" and beraht "bright". The Normans introduced this name to England, where it replaced an Old English cognate Herebeorht.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 1 (The Other Minister)
St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries
Founder Mungo Bonham
St Mungo's Admissions Department · Poisoning Department · Janus Thickey Ward · 'Dangerous' Dai Llewellyn Ward: Serious Bites · Purge and Dowse, Ltd
Employees
Positions Healer · Mediwizard · Trainee Healer · Welcome Witch · Entrance dummy
Healers Omar Abasi · Dilys Derwent · Lancelot · Rutherford Poke · Augustus Pye · Hippocrates Smethwyck · Helbert Spleen · Miriam Strout · Talbott Winger's mother
Patients
Katie Bell · Herbert Chorley · John Dawlish · Gordon Horton · Minerva McGonagall · Montgomery · Laura Thorn · Nymphadora Tonks · Arthur Weasley · Grubby-looking St Mungo's patient · Bitten St Mungo's patient · Winged St Mungo's patient · Unidentified St Mungo's patient · Unidentified werewolf
Long-term residents Agnes · Alice Longbottom · Frank Longbottom · Gilderoy Lockhart · Broderick Bode (deceased)