Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Unidentified Hogwarts student
Biographical information
Born
Between 1 September 1972 and 31 August 1973
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood[1]
Nationality
British or Irish[2]
Also known as
The Hero of Hogwarts (by Penny Haywood)
The Clobberer of Curses (by Bill Weasley)
The Pulverizer of Polar Platemail (by Bill Weasley)
Curse-Breaker (by many including Andre Egwu, Skye Parkin and Patricia Rakepick)
Pip (by Jacob)
New Fan (by Face Paint Kid)
Breaker of Records (by Orion Amari)
Helpful elf (by Bilton Bilmes)
Coach (by Murphy McNully)
Title(s)
All-Wizard Victor[3]
Prefect (possibly)[4]
Head Boy or Girl (possibly)[5]
Chaser[6]
Beater[7]
Keeper[8]
Acting Captain
Physical information
Species
Human[9]
Relationship information
Family members
Mother
Father
Jacob (older brother)
Relatives in America[10]
Their family
Magical characteristics
Animagus
Brown dog, black and white cat or eagle (possibly)[11]
Boggart
Lord Voldemort[12]
Wand
One of the following: (formerly)
12", Acacia, Unicorn tail hair
11¼", Blackthorn, Unicorn tail hair
11", Hornbeam, Dragon heartstring
One of the following:
11¼", Ebony, Dragon heartstring
11", Redwood, Unicorn tail hair
12", Laurel, Phoenix feather
Patronus
Either a white stallion, unicorn, Abraxan, tiger, cheetah, leopard, Spotted Hare, Mountain Hare or Lop-Eared Rabbit
Affiliation
Loyalty
Jacob's family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Duelling Club
Sphinx Club[13]
Dragon Club[14]
Hippogriff Club[15]
Frog Choir (possibly)[16]
Circle of Khanna[17]
[Source]
"Your efforts ensured that the Cursed Vaults will never again threaten Hogwarts, and for that, I thank you. You broke a considerable number of school rules, but you did so to break an ancient curse. All of Hogwarts owes you a debt of gratitude. I expect history will label you a hero."
— Albus Dumbledore to Jacob's sibling[src]
This student was a witch or wizard who attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry between 1984 and 1991. Their brother Jacob's expulsion from Hogwarts for endangering fellow students in his quest to find the Cursed Vaults had an impact on his younger sibling's first year at Hogwarts when many other students whispered about them for their elder sibling's breaking of school rules which had disgraced their shared schoolhouse. The incident was well-covered in the Daily Prophet, as was Jacob's running away from home, which had a profound effect on the younger sibling.
Throughout their seven years at Hogwarts, they successfully broke into every one of the five Cursed Vaults, showing immense bravery, intelligence, dedication and resourcefulness. They maintained friendships with lots of schoolmates and went through exciting adventures together, rescuing Jacob from the Buried Vault[18] and breaking the ancient statue curse in the Sunken Vault.[19]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life (1972/1973-1984)
1.1.1 Meeting Rowan Khanna
1.2 Hogwarts years (1984–1991)
1.2.1 First year
1.2.1.1 Sorting Ceremony
1.2.1.2 Charms class
1.2.1.3 Meeting Merula Snyde
1.2.1.4 Merula's prank
1.2.1.5 Learning to duel
1.2.1.6 Duelling Merula
1.2.1.7 Discovering the locked door
1.2.1.8 Encountering Fenrir Greyback
1.2.1.9 Dealing with the cursed ice
1.2.2 Second year
1.2.2.1 Searching for Ben Copper
1.2.2.2 Hallowe'en Deathday Party
1.2.2.3 Planning a sneak-in
1.2.2.4 Christmas at The Burrow
1.2.2.5 Finding Ben Copper
1.2.2.6 Celebrating Hogwarts teachers
1.2.2.7 Searching the Icy Corridor
1.2.2.8 Investigating with Chiara
1.2.2.9 Bonding with Bill Weasley
1.2.2.10 Meeting the Malfoys
1.2.2.11 First attempt at the Vault of Ice
1.2.2.12 Entering the Vault of Ice
1.2.3 Third year
1.2.3.1 Boggart in the Greenhouse
1.2.3.2 Becoming an Animagus
1.2.3.3 The Dragon Relay
1.2.3.4 Visiting Hogsmeade
1.2.3.5 Frog Choir audition
1.2.3.6 Retrieving Merula's key
1.2.3.7 Entering Jacob's room
1.2.3.8 Investigating a theft
1.2.3.9 Convincing Barnaby Lee
1.2.3.10 Bonding with Talbott Winger
1.2.3.11 Entering the Vault of Fear
1.2.4 Fourth year
1.2.4.1 Meeting Patricia Rakepick
1.2.4.2 Learning the Patronus Charm
1.2.4.3 Learning about Rakepick
1.2.4.4 Preparing for the Forbidden Forest
1.2.4.5 Attending the Celestial Ball
1.2.4.6 Searching for the Forest Vault
1.2.4.7 Going on a date
1.2.4.8 Searching for the arrowhead
1.2.4.9 Spying on Rakepick
1.2.4.10 Preparing for the Forest Vault
1.2.4.11 Entering the Forest Vault
1.2.4.12 Restoring order in the Forbidden Forest
1.2.5 Fifth year
1.2.5.1 An unusual start
1.2.5.2 Finding Beatrice Haywood
1.2.5.3 Researching the portrait curse
1.2.5.4 Sir Cadogan's knightly trials
1.2.5.5 Learning about the Marauder's Map
1.2.5.6 Outdoor celebration of magic
1.2.5.7 Learning about Duncan and Jacob
1.2.5.8 The All-Wizard Tournament
1.2.5.9 Preparing for Knockturn Alley
1.2.5.10 The Valentine's Day Ball
1.2.5.11 Visiting Knockturn Alley
1.2.5.12 Looking for the vault portrait
1.2.5.13 Performing a play
1.2.5.14 Various findings
1.2.5.15 Hunting for a Crumple-Horned Snorkack
1.2.5.16 Following the Marauder's Map
1.2.5.17 Learning Legilimency and Occlumency
1.2.5.18 The Great Hogwarts Cook-Off
1.2.5.19 Rowan possessed
1.2.5.20 Forming a grand plan
1.2.5.21 Taking O.W.L.s
1.2.5.22 Releasing ultimate chaos
1.2.5.23 Preparing for the Buried Vault
1.2.5.24 Entering the Buried Vault
1.2.5.25 Returning to Hogwarts
1.2.6 Sixth year
1.2.6.1 The school year's start
1.2.6.2 Deciphering the prophecy
1.2.6.3 Bill returned
1.2.6.4 A curse-breaking mission
1.2.6.5 Finding Jacob
1.2.6.6 Tutoring Levi Kidd
1.2.6.7 Looking for an owl
1.2.6.8 Searching for dark artefacts
1.2.6.9 Gathering allies
1.2.6.10 Investigating the Black Lake
1.2.6.11 Battling in the Forest Grove
1.2.6.12 Forming the Circle of Khanna
1.2.6.13 Meeting Alanza Alves
1.2.6.14 Returning to the Forest Grove
1.2.6.15 Becoming Head Boy or Girl
1.2.6.16 Bonding with Jacob and Beatrice
1.2.6.17 Exploring the Whomping Willow
1.2.6.18 Infiltrating R's meeting
1.2.6.19 Visiting the Merpeople
1.2.6.20 Preparing for the Sunken Vault
1.2.6.21 Entering the Sunken Vault
1.2.6.22 Throwing a party
1.2.6.23 Finding out the mole
1.2.7 Seventh year
1.2.7.1 The wandless duel
1.2.7.2 Investigating with Corey
1.2.7.3 Ministry assignments
1.2.7.4 Enchanted windows mystery
1.2.7.5 Mysterious creature attack
1.2.7.6 Memory loss catastrophe
1.2.7.7 Doxy infestation
2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Possessions
5.1 Pets
6 Relationships
6.1 Family
6.2 The Weasleys
6.2.1 Bill Weasley
6.2.2 Charlie Weasley
6.3 Friends
6.3.1 Rowan Khanna
6.3.2 Ben Copper
6.3.3 Penny Haywood
6.3.4 Nymphadora Tonks
6.3.5 Barnaby Lee
6.3.6 Talbott Winger
6.3.7 Andre Egwu
6.3.8 Tulip Karasu
6.3.9 Skye Parkin
6.3.10 Murphy McNully
6.3.11 Orion Amari
6.4 Others
6.4.1 Merula Snyde
6.4.2 Ismelda Murk
6.5 Hogwarts staff
6.5.1 Patricia Rakepick
7 Behind the scenes
8 Appearances
9 Notes and references
Biography
Early life (1972/1973-1984)
They were born in 1972 or 1973 to magical parents. They had one[20] older sibling, Jacob.
They apparently lived in close proximity to Muggle dwellings,[21] but they showed little knowledge of Muggle life as an adolescent and must have had limited interaction with their neighbours.[22]
When they were five or six years old, they and Jacob pretended to duel with Liquorice Wands. At one point, Jacob convinced his sibling to steal Sickles from their mother's coat pockets.
During their childhood, their parents worked together to teach Jacob and his sibling that they could not go around flaunting their magic. In particular, their mother was strict about the use of magic outside of school, refusing both of her children to ride a broomstick before they began attending school.
They performed wandless magic when they were young, shattering one of their mother's tea sets when they sneezed. Their mother thought Jacob had done it until they repeated the feat with a vase a few weeks later when Jacob was at school. On another occasion, they laughed a flower back to life which their mother was pretty pleased with.[20]
Jacob began attending Hogwarts during their childhood. Tragedy struck the family when they received an owl from Professor Albus Dumbledore, informing them that Jacob had been expelled for endangering his fellow students in his attempt to prove that the fabled Cursed Vaults really existed.
Shortly after being sent home, Jacob ran away and went missing; many believed that he went on to serve Lord Voldemort, whereas other rumours said he had returned to Hogwarts after his expulsion to resume his search. His younger sibling would, years later, reject the former possibility. When his sibling and mother heard he went missing, they were upset over the news and cried.
Meeting Rowan Khanna
Rowan Khanna: "Hi, I'm Rowan Khanna! Are you getting ready to start at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry too?"
Jacob's sibling: "Yes, but Diagon Alley is a bit confusing. I'm not sure where to start…"
Rowan Khanna: "I can help! I've been reading Hogwarts: A History in anticipation of my first year, so I'm something of an expert on Hogwarts. You should start by finding all of the books you need at Flourish and Blotts!"
— Jacob's sibling meeting Rowan Khanna[src]
Shortly after receiving the Hogwarts acceptance letter, Jacob's sibling travelled to Diagon Alley to buy school supplies, and met and befriended future fellow student and housemate Rowan Khanna, who came from a wizarding family of wood farmers. Rowan suggested to start at Flourish and Blotts. While picking up The Standard Book of Spells, Jacob's sibling excitedly remarked how they looked forward to learning all the Charms; upon picking up Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, they said they were familiar with it and thought it to be brilliant. Afterwards, they journeyed to Ollivanders Wand Shop to purchase their first wand: Garrick Ollivander expressed both concern and curiosity about what sort of effect their brother's choices had made on this individual, but still looked forward to seeing what kind of life they would lead. When the shopping concluded, Jacob's sibling and Rowan promised to see each other again on the train.[9]
Hogwarts years (1984–1991)
First year
Sorting Ceremony
"Hmm… very interesting. I haven't seen one like this in a long time."
— The Sorting Hat whilst sorting this individual[src]
First years being Sorted in 1984
On 1 September 1984, Jacob's sibling boarded the Hogwarts Express on Platform Nine and Three-Quarters, through the magical barrier at King's Cross Station. Upon arrival, they were greeted at the Great Hall by the rest of the students and the staff. Professor McGonagall proceeded to provide them with a short explanation of the four Hogwarts Houses, voicing her hope that all of the newcomers would make fine additions to the ranks of great witches and wizards that each House had produced in the past. When Jacob's sibling was called to be Sorted, the Sorting Hat remarked that "[it hadn't] seen one like this in a long time", and took their choice of House into account — which was the same as their brother Jacob's. Later, they found that Rowan had been Sorted into the same House as them.[23]
When the sorting was done and all first-years had found places to sit among their new housemates, Professor Dumbledore rose and stood behind the Owl Lecturn in front of the High Table. He gave a brief speech of welcomes, educated the new arrivals on the rules of the House Cup and on what a great honour it would be to win it. At the end of the Start-of-Term Feast, Jacob's sibling's Head of House moved to stand beside the Headmaster, announcing to the students of their house that it was time for them to move to their common room. Once there, Jacob's sibling reunited with Rowan, and the two briefly discussed their shared excitement over finally attending school and their new House before agreeing to go to bed, as they would have to be up bright and early for Charms first thing in the morning.[23]
Charms class
Jacob's sibling: "Pleased to meet you, Professor Flitwick. I'm really looking forward to Charms."
Filius Flitwick: "You're Mr/Miss [surname]! If you're anything like your brother, you will do just fine. He was one of my most skilled students. That being said, he was also one of my most rebellious students..."
— Jacob's sibling meeting Professor Flitwick[src]
As Charms was one of the subjects Jacob's sibling had most looked forward to, when arriving at the Charms Classroom, they courteously greeted the Charms Master, Professor Flitwick. Recognising the individual as Jacob's sibling, Filius Flitwick answered in kind words, claiming that he was certain the student would do just fine, as their older brother had been one of his most skilled students at Hogwarts prior to his expulsion. Even so, he subtly warned them against trouble-making, adding that Jacob had been one of his most rebellious students as well. For the student's first class, they studied the Wand-Lighting Charm.[24]
Meeting Merula Snyde
"Merula Snyde. First-year Slytherin. The best witch at Hogwarts. I overheard the professors whispering about you at the Feast. I suppose you think you're better than me. I should put you out of your misery before you ruin Hogwarts like your brother tried to."
— Merula Snyde taunting Jacob's sibling[src]
Later on, Jacob's sibling encountered Merula Snyde, an imperious and cruel Slytherin student, who tried to bully Rowan into admitting her as the most powerful witch to ever attend Hogwarts. Jacob's sibling intervened on Rowan's behalf and stood up for them against Merula, but before their argument went any further, Professor Snape ordered them to get into the Potions Classroom for the subsequent class. The animosity formed between Merula and Jacob's sibling grew in that lesson, for at the end of the class, Merula sabotaged the Cure for Boils Jacob's sibling brewed with Bulbadox powder, which caused the potion to explode, resulting in them losing ten points for their house due to their presumed clumsiness.[25]
Merula's prank
Jacob's sibling: "What is that thing?!"
Merula Snyde: "A deadly plant called Devil's Snare. Some fourth-year Slytherins showed it to me when I first arrived. It's sensitive to light. If you're really better at the Wand-Lighting Charm than me, escaping should be no problem."
Jacob's sibling: "Merula?! You locked us in here?!"
Merula Snyde: "Along with sending you a fake letter from Snape. I told you things would only get worse for you, [surname]."
— Jacob's sibling (in the room with the Devil's Snare) talking to Merula (outside the room)[src]
Not long after the incident, Jacob's sibling was introduced to Ben Copper and the House Prefect. The Prefect gave Jacob's sibling a note from Professor Snape stating he would consider restoring the points if they fetched some Pickled Slugs from a storage room. Jacob's sibling found the room following instructions on the note, but the room turned out to be filled with Devil's Snare, which quickly tied Jacob's sibling up. Merula appeared outside the room and revealed she had forged the note. Fortunately, Rubeus Hagrid arrived in time and saved them.[26]
Learning to duel
Prefect: "I'm going to teach you two how to duel."
Jacob's sibling: "But we don't know any duelling spells…"
Prefect: "[House] keeps a secret duelling book hidden in the Artefact Room. It will teach you various spells, potions, and techniques. Meet me again after you've learned a duelling spell, and I'll teach you everything else you need to know."
— Jacob's sibling's Prefect deciding to teach them how to duel[src]
Jacob's sibling's Prefect decided to teach them how to duel after Merula hit them with Flipendo. They went to the Artefact Room with Rowan to get a duelling book, but saw some visions in their head and heard a mysterious voice saying a kind of ice was here and a vault would open. Nevertheless, they acquired the book. They learned the Disarming Charm from Professor Flitwick and another spell with Rowan.[27]
Duelling Merula
Merula Snyde: "You can't be better than me! No one can be better than me!"
Jacob's sibling: "I beat you, Merula. Now apologise to Ben Copper, and promise to stop bullying everyone."
Merula Snyde: "I'll never apologise to you losers and Mudbloods! I'm Merula Snyde! Fourth generation Slytherin! The greatest witch at Hogwarts! I do what I want when I want! I run this school! I—"
Severus Snape: "Ahem."
— Professor Snape discovering Jacob's sibling and Merula finishing their duel[src]
Jacob's sibling arrived at the courtyard and saw Merula scolding Ben in front of the public, so they started a duel with her. When the duel reached an end, Professors Snape and Flitwick arrived. Snape instructed both Merula and Jacob's sibling to arrive in the West Tower to receive their punishment.[28]
Discovering the locked door
Severus Snape: "Who else knows about this?"
Argus Filch: "Only me and Mrs Norris saw the ice, sir. Was going to report the incident to the Headmaster, I was."
Severus Snape: "I will inform Professor Dumbledore. This may have to do with the [surname] situation."
Argus Filch: "Is it true that the vaults are filled with gold and powerful prophecies and artefacts from before Hogwarts existed? And that's why the [surname] boy lost his mind trying to find them?"
Severus Snape: "Don't worry about what's inside the vaults. Worry about keeping everyone out. Lock this door, and keep it guarded."
— Professor Snape and Mr Filch regarding the Cursed Vaults[src]
On their way, they encountered Penny Haywood, the most popular girl in their year. She thanked them for having the courage to stand up to Merula, the school bully, and offered them her help in whatever they needed, which Jacob's sibling appreciated. Once they met Snape, Jacob's sibling lost house points for their house, while Merula did not. Before Snape could dispense punishment, however, he was interrupted by the school caretaker, Argus Filch, who required him and so Snape was forced to depart from the two students although he unknowingly was followed by Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde who subsequently overheard Snape and Filch talking about the mysterious Cursed Vaults, resulting in Jacob's sibling deciding to try to find them. They told Rowan Khanna about it and they went back to the corridor where the conversation had taken place, only to find a door which was locked. Mrs Norris showed up and ran away after seeing the two. Afraid that Mrs Norris might alert Filch, they left the corridor.[29]
Encountering Fenrir Greyback
Fenrir Greyback: "Nothing to be afraid of, love. We're here to free you from your little lives. To show your what true power tastes like."
Jacob's sibling: "Who are you?"
Fenrir Greyback: "Fenrir Greyback. I'll be takin' care of you from now on. After I get a bite or two…"
— Fenrir Greyback breaking into Hogwarts[src]
Fenrir Greyback and his fellow werewolves at Hogwarts, much to the horror of Jacob's sibling
On Hallowe'en, Fenrir Greyback and his army attacked Hogwarts. Chiara Lobosca, a werewolf student (in human form at the time), spotted Greyback and two werewolves emerging from the Forbidden Forest and tried to attack them, but was easily defeated. Shortly afterwards, Greyback and his two werewolf companions encountered Jacob's sibling, who defiantly stood up to them and briefly held off one of the two werewolves with their spells. Before Greyback could better coordinate the assault on and hence overwhelm the young pupil, however, he caught the scent of Albus Dumbledore and made a hasty retreat, who arrived just too late to capture him. The headmaster briefly examined the injured student on the ground and instructed the other one to return to their dormitory while he attended to Chiara, explaining that he would contact the Ministry of Magic and ask them to send an expert from the Werewolf Capture Unit to help to stop Grayback.
The next full moon, Greyback and his army attacked Hogwarts again. This time, they encountered Jacob's sibling and Cecil Lee, whom the Ministry had sent on Dumbledore's behest. During the confrontation, Cecil tried to use the Homorphus Charm on Greyback's werewolf companions, but, as he was out of range, it failed. While Cecil was surrounded by the two other werewolves, Greyback transformed. He was attacked by Chiara in her werewolf form, but swiftly and brutally put her out of action by knocking her unconscious. After this, Jacob's sibling successfully held him at bay by some swift-spell-casting. Having fended off the two werewolves attacking him, who had retreated to Greyback's side, Cecil swiftly stepped forward and conjured ropes from the end of his wand to restrain the pack leader. Having captured the three werewolves, Cecil agreed not to capture Chiara due to her heroic actions.
Not long afterwards, Greyback had already managed to escape from the Werewolf Capture Unit, though Mr Lee was confident that enough members of his pack had been rounded up to force him to keep his head low for a while.[30]
Dealing with the cursed ice
Merula Snyde: "The ice st-stuck m-me t-to the f-floor, and k-keeps sp-spreading over me!"
Jacob's sibling: "It's the same ice from my vision…"
Merula Snyde: "It's spreading over the door too! Get m-me out of this ice b-before I j-jinx the three of you!"
— Jacob's sibling and their friends discovering Merula trapped in the cursed ice[src]
Jacob's sibling learned to brew a Sleeping Draught with Penny Haywood.[31] They arrived at the locked door with Rowan and another friend (possibly Penny or Ben), and Rowan used the Sleeping Draught (mixed in milk) on Mrs Norris to get past the door. They unlocked the door, but Merula overpowered them and went in first. The door led to a room in which they discovered the cursed ice, with Merula trapped in it. The ice spread, blocked the door behind them, and trapped their friends too. Jacob's sibling saved them and their friend reopened the door. Before leaving, Rowan noticed some code written on the wall and remembered it. The code, later deciphered by Rowan, suggested there was an Ice Knight who stood guard past the Vanished Stairs.[32]
Albus Dumbledore summoned Jacob's sibling to come see him, making them fearful they would be expelled for their actions. On the contrary, Dumbledore awarded them one hundred points for their courage and compassion.[32] Jacob's sibling attended the End-of-Term Feast before departing from Hogwarts.[33]
Second year
During the second year, Jacob's sibling played Chaser in their House's Quidditch team.[6]
Searching for Ben Copper
"If this message was intended for Ben, we have to find that quill. We can use Reparifarge to undo the Transfiguration."
— Jacob's sibling after discovering the note[src]
During the 1985–1986 school year, Ben Copper went missing shortly after the start of their second year, and Jacob's sibling tried to search the castle for him. While doing so, they found a note in the Artefact Room. With help from Rowan, the note was deciphered, revealing that it was signed by someone using the initial "R" and contained instructions to locate a black quill hidden in a common room different from their own, which would turn into a note with additional information when Untransfigured. These instructions were allegedly meant for Ben to follow, and the note was speculated to have a connection to his disappearance. Jacob's sibling was puzzled, but decided to do as the note said in hopes of finding Ben.[34]
Hallowe'en Deathday Party
"Sir Nicholas and Erling clashed at first sight, and even the Friar was worried the two would never get along, but now... Now they're hosting the most ambitious event for ghosts Hogwarts has ever seen!"
— Jacob's sibling at the Deathday Party[src]
Jacob's sibling welcomed Erling the Great to Hogwarts before this year's Hallowe'en. Sir Nicholas, who was planning to throw a Deathday Party, shared his deathday with Erling, but Erling decided to throw his own party instead of joining Sir Nicholas'. Jacob's sibling then helped Sir Nicholas prepare for his Deathday Party by making and sending invitation Howlers and sabotage Erling's party by preserving the food that was intended to be spoiled. However, this act was discovered by Professor Sprout, so Sir Nicholas gave his own food to Erling. On Hallowe'en, the two parties were eventually combined due to neither of them being satisfying, and Jacob's sibling danced with Myrtle Warren there.[35]
Planning a sneak-in
Rowan Khanna: "I had trouble coming up with a plan until I remembered the Shrinking and Engorgement Charms!"
Jacob's sibling: "Okay…"
Rowan Khanna: "And, the big Gryffindor versus Slytherin Quidditch match!"
Jacob's sibling: "I'm not sure I follow…"
Rowan Khanna: "Everyone will be at that match, everyone except us. When the students leave the [house][36] Common Room, you'll shrink, sneak inside while the door is open, and re-enlarge yourself! The Common Room will be empty. You'll be able to grab the Black Quill, and leave without anyone knowing! It's brilliant, isn't it?"
— Rowan Khanna telling Jacob's sibling their plan[src]
Jacob's sibling learned the Shrinking Charm and Engorgement Charm in order to enter the other house's common room by using them on themselves and sneaking in undetected when the common room was empty, during a game of Quidditch between Gryffindor and Slytherin. In preparation for this, Jacob's sibling questioned Flitwick about the ramifications of using such spells on living things, but Flitwick became suspicious and strictly forbade it.[37]
Christmas at The Burrow
"Now I see that any Christmas can be perfect, so long as you spend it with people who care about you."
— Jacob's sibling[src]
In December 1985, Bill Weasley invited Jacob's sibling to The Burrow for Christmas. Jacob's sibling wanted to give the Weasley family presents, so they tried to amplify the Snowflake-making Spell to create a snowfall around The Burrow, but inadvertently caused a blizzard that blocked the Hogwarts Express. They then learned Meteolojinx Recanto from Professor Flitwick and stopped the blizzard.[38]
Charlie arrived in Arthur's flying car and prepared to send Jacob's sibling and Bill to The Burrow, but the car stopped working due to a missing part. It later turned out to be Merula Snyde, who regretted her decision of spending Christmas alone, that had taken the part so as to keep them in Hogwarts. She gave the part back to Charlie and was invited to The Burrow too. Jacob's sibling, Merula and the Weasley family put up a Christmas tree with a gnome they Stunned earlier, decorated The Burrow, and enjoyed a feast together.[38]
Finding Ben Copper
Minerva McGonagall: "The cursed ice continues to spread throughout Hogwarts. Someone has clearly been tampering with the Cursed Vaults."
Severus Snape: "It would be helpful if our Headmaster were at Hogwarts, instead of searching elsewhere for answers."
Minerva McGonagall: "We don't need Dumbledore to safely free Mr Copper. We will cast Incendio together, but target the ice farthest from the boy's body. Be careful, Severus."
— Professors McGonagall and Snape preparing to free Ben Copper[src]
Despite Flitwick's objection, Jacob's sibling sneaked into the common room as planned and got the black quill, but while exiting they were caught by the common room's corresponding Head of House, who asked them to explain their behaviour. Shortly after this, they Untransfigured the quill using Reparifarge, and it transformed into another note from R, instructing the reader to go to the farthest corridor at the end of the fifth floor, re-Transfigure the scroll into a black quill, and return it to the common room in which it had been hidden. They did so, and while inspecting the corridor, they found out the professors were already there. They also found Ben frozen in the cursed ice, but the professors saved him by casting the Fire-Making Spell, explaining that the cursed ice appeared to have developed resistance to the Knockback Jinx.[39]
Celebrating Hogwarts teachers
"So you see, it's not the plans you make in chess or in life, or even whether you win or lose. It's how you move forward from the game and take those lessons to the next one that matters most."
— Professor McGonagall during her last Wizard's Chess session with Jacob's sibling[src]
Jacob's sibling participated in the Teacher Appreciation Celebration. They interviewed Professor McGonagall, this year's Guest of Honour, while playing a game of Wizard's Chess with her. They also asked several other professors about her. They did a presentation about her on the final celebration feast.[40]
Searching the Icy Corridor
Rowan Khanna: "Merlin's beard, [name]! You unvanished a secret staircase!"
Jacob's sibling: "It's the same staircase from my vision…"
Rowan Khanna: "And most likely the same staircase from the message we found carved in the cursed ice. Where do you think it leads?"
— Jacob's sibling and Rowan revealing the Vanished Stairs[src]
Jacob's sibling and Rowan searched the corridor once more and found a wall to be suspicious. They decided to ask Professor McGonagall to teach them the Revealing Charm. After learning, they returned to the Icy Corridor and used it to find the Vanished Stairs. The stairs led to another mysterious corridor, which ended in a kind of mist. Jacob's sibling used the Knockback Jinx to clear the mist and revealed a hidden door covered with ice. They tried opening it but Rowan got hurt by some flying ice, so Jacob's sibling sent Rowan to the Hospital Wing.[41] Rowan later recovered and suggested they get help from Bill Weasley.[42]
Investigating with Chiara
"Stand by her side during tonight's full moon. It will be a tough transformation for Chiara without the effects of the Wolfsbane Potions. Take her mind off her transformation. Show her that fear won't keep you away. Remind her of what's important. Trust me, it was a lot easier to make it to the sunrise when I knew I had friends by my side…"
— Remus Lupin before a full moon[src]
Rumours spread around Hogwarts that a white werewolf had attacked a student. Jacob's sibling started investigating and asked Chiara Lobosca for help, who was reluctant at first but eventually agreed. She revealed to them that she was a werewolf and was afraid that the attacker might have been herself. They brewed a Memory Potion to help the victim, Pippa Macmillan, remember the attack more clearly, and it turned out to be a hippogriff rather than a werewolf. Jacob's sibling later found out that Chiara had been secretly giving Remus Lupin her Wolfsbane Potion, which led to her unrestrained transformation under the full moon. They duelled Chiara in her werewolf form, which drove her off into the Forbidden Forest to spend the rest of the night safely.[43][44]
Bonding with Bill Weasley
"It will take hard work, and even a little pain to prepare to break a Cursed Vault. Practise your spells in class, and I'll train you to duel. After that, we'll break the curse on this vault together…"
— Bill Weasley to Jacob's sibling[src]
Bill Weasley taught Jacob's sibling the Fire-Making Spell and duelled them to help them practice their skills. He agreed to go find the Vault with them.[45]
Meeting the Malfoys
Draco Malfoy: "I'm not too young to learn!"
Jacob's sibling: "That's why you stole your father's wand. Didn't you?"
Draco Malfoy: "All right, you've caught me. I borrowed my father's wand. I was going to give it back, but then he'd know I took it!"
— Draco Malfoy acknowledging his actions[src]
Lucius Malfoy came to Hogwarts to inspect as a governor, during which he questioned Jacob's sibling and Ben Copper. Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde were asked to babysit his son Draco. During the inspection, Lucius' wand got stolen. Lucius planned to blame his house-elf Dobby for the theft as he knew where the wand had been kept, but Dobby claimed to Jacob's sibling that he did not do it. Later, they found out that it was Draco who had stolen the wand and they brought the wand back to Lucius.[46]
First attempt at the Vault of Ice
Jacob's sibling: "Feeling better, Bill?"
Bill Weasley: "Thanks to you, [name]. I can almost feel my fingers again."
Jacob's sibling: "I'm sorry you got hurt."
Bill Weasley: "Are you kidding? I've never felt more alive! We have to go back, and use Incendio to break the Cursed Vault. But this time, we should bring more help."
— Jacob's sibling visiting Bill in the Hospital Wing[src]
Jacob's sibling and Bill went back to the entrance to the Vault of Ice, and succeeded in breaking down three layers of ice and faced the door, but before going further, Bill was trapped by some more ice. Jacob's sibling freed Bill and decided to tackle the door another day.[47]
Bill later recovered in the Hospital Wing and decided to revisit the Vault with more friends. Jacob's sibling taught Penny and Rowan spells and Ben the Burn-Healing Paste.[48]
Entering the Vault of Ice
Bill Weasley: "A book and a broken wand? Not exactly the treasure I was hoping for…"
Jacob's sibling: "Maybe they're clues…"
Jacob's voice: "Find the other four vaults, [name]… Find my room…"
Jacob's sibling: "Your room? I don't understand…"
Jacob's voice: "You can't let her get there first! Hurry!"
— Jacob's sibling and their friends in the Vault of Ice hearing Jacob's voice[src]
Jacob's sibling and their friends preparing to enter the Vault of Ice
Jacob's sibling chose a friend (possibly Rowan, Penny or Ben) along with Bill to break into the Vault of Ice. They arrived at the door and repeatedly cast the Fire-Making Spell until it opened. An Ice Knight burst through, trapped the others in ice, and duelled Jacob's sibling. It was ultimately defeated, allowing Jacob's sibling to free their friends and enter the Vault. They found a broken wand and a notebook in the Vault.[49]
Before taking them, Jacob's sibling heard a mysterious voice saying they had to find the other vaults and their (the voice's) room, and they couldn't let "her" get there first. They recognised the voice to be their brother Jacob's. The wand matched Jacob's wand's features, and the notebook contained nothing but scribbles and drawings.[49]
After leaving the vault, Professor McGonagall required to see them outside of Professor Dumbledore's office and possibly took fifty house points from them. Dumbledore also spoke with them in his office, awarding them fifty house points and warning them never to go search for the Cursed Vaults again.[49]
Third year
Jacob's sibling took Care of Magical Creatures and Divination as electives.[50]
During their third year, they went on to play Beater while Bean, the original Beater on their team, was suspended from playing Quidditch.[7] At the end of the school year, they also met with their Prefect who was about to graduate, and they taught Jacob's sibling to cast the Freezing Charm, to brew the Babbling Beverage and to tend Snargaluff.[51]
Boggart in the Greenhouse
Penny Haywood: "AHHHHHHHHH!"
Rowan Khanna: "A werewolf just burst out of that pot!"
Jacob's sibling: "How did a werewolf get in here?"
Pomona Sprout: "It didn't. Stand back, Miss Haywood. Riddikulus!"
— A Boggart manifesting in the Greenhouse taking the form of a werewolf[src]
In the beginning of their third year, at the end of a Herbology class, a werewolf manifested out of a pot in the Greenhouse, which scared Penny. Professor Sprout immediately recognised it as a Boggart and used the Boggart-Banishing Spell to turn it into a doll.[52]
Becoming an Animagus
Jacob's sibling: "I have a surprise for you and Fang."
Rubeus Hagrid: "Yeh deh?! Is it a baby Puffskein? I'm always in the market for another Puffskein."
Jacob's sibling: "No, but close. I wanted to tell you that I became an Animagus."
— Jacob's sibling telling Rubeus Hagrid they had become an Animagus[src]
Jacob's sibling became an Animagus with the help of Penny Haywood and Talbott Winger, who was an unregistered Animagus already.[11][53]
The Dragon Relay
"Thank you for embodying the spirit of adventure and taking care of my favourite club. Now, one last time… Let me hear you roar!"
— Gwenog Jones to Jacob's sibling, and then everyone[src]
The Dragon Relay
When Jacob's sibling and Diego Caplan were having a duel in the Dragon Clubhouse, one of Diego's spells accidentally hit and broke a statue, revealing a chest inside. They opened it out of curiosity and sent a cursed Bludger flying around. Jacob's sibling then found it on the Training Grounds, and with help from Professor Flitwick, they managed to uncurse it. After some investigation, they thought the statue might have been donated by Gwenog Jones, a fresh graduate, and after Erika Rath contacted her, she agreed to return to Hogwarts. To raise money for a replacement statue, Jacob's sibling and their friends planned and participated in the Dragon Relay, but unfortunately the income was not enough. Gwenog then surprised everyone by restoring the broken statue, and revealing that she had already replaced the statue as another gift for the Dragon Club.[14]
Visiting Hogsmeade
Jacob's sibling: "I heard you knew him, and was wondering if you had any information about him, or his search for the Cursed Vaults."
Madam Rosmerta: "I remember Jacob… quite boy. Sweet. He spent a lot of time at the bar, scribbling in notebooks."
Jacob's sibling: "Notebooks?!"
Madam Rosmerta: "Aye. Then one day, a pair of Ministry Aurors grabbed Jacob by the hood of his robes, and dragged him out the door. The only thing he left behind was a Black Quill."
— Jacob's sibling and Madam Rosmerta talking about Jacob's notebooks[src]
A visit to Hogsmeade was due since it was Jacob's sibling's third year, but they were initially not allowed to go because they have broken a lot of school rules. Their Head of House offered to let them go if they studied hard, which they did, eventually gaining permission.[54]
Arriving at Hogsmeade, Jacob's sibling went to the Three Broomsticks and asked Madam Rosmerta about Jacob. She gave them a black quill that belonged to Jacob. Using Reparifarge, Jacob's sibling transformed it back into a notebook and told Rosmerta what it was. But Filch, who overheard, seized the notebook and took it to his office, as ordered by Professor Snape.[55] With the help of Nymphadora Tonks, Jacob's sibling tricked Filch and got the notebook back. To hide in his office again, they used the Shrinking Charm.[56]
Frog Choir audition
"Not that it's any of your business, but… My mum used to be on the Frog Choir, back when she was at Hogwarts. She loved to sing. She used to sing to me to sleep every night when I was a kid. At least, she did, until she got herself arrested. We used to sing together in preparation for the day I'd get selected to sing on the Frog Choir…"
— Merula explaining the reason behind her longing of joining the Frog Choir[src]
Jacob's sibling heard Professor Flitwick announce in the Great Hall that an audition for the Frog Choir would soon be held. They met Tulip Karasu, a Ravenclaw girl, and accepted to take her toad, Dennis, with them to the Frog Choir audition. Jacob's sibling and Dennis did a few things to bond, one of which was playing tricks on Madam Pince. They then met with the Weird Sisters and practised with them. They sang in front of Professor Snape to test their nerves. They went to the audition, and so did Merula Snyde. Merula duelled Jacob's sibling later, and she told them that she had been wanting the place in the choir because of her memories with her mom before she got arrested. Jacob's sibling won the audition, but it is unknown whether they gave the place to Merula.[16][57]
Retrieving Merula's key
Jacob's sibling: "Work with us, Merula. We'll give you whatever we find in the next vault."
Merula Snyde: "Are you trying to trick me? I don't want to work with you, [surname]. I want a rematch. If you can beat me again, I'll give you the key…"
— Merula demanding a rematch of the duel against Jacob's sibling[src]
Rowan Khanna deciphered the notebook, and they learn about a room where Jacob researched the Cursed Vaults. The room was closed with a double lock, and no spell worked against it. Jacob's sibling and another student read that the lock was the property of Tulip Karasu and asked her for help. After testing their character, Tulip told that she had one of the keys from that lock, and Merula Snyde had the other one.[58]
Tulip and Jacob's sibling went to the courtyard to ask Merula for the key after driving away her cronies. She agreed after Jacob's sibling defeated her in a duel again, but she tells them she had already taken what she needed from there and warned them not to trust Tulip.[59]
Entering Jacob's room
"Look at this note! When someone first tampered with the vault, there were more Boggarts in the Library than anywhere. The vault must be there. There are thousands of shelves in the Library, where could the entrance be?"
— Jacob's sibling after discovering Jacob's note[src]
After getting the key, Tulip and Jacob's sibling went into the room and encountered a Boggart, which took the form of Voldemort. Remembering Professor Sprout had used a spell against a Boggart earlier in Herbology class, they went to the Library to find a book about it and to the Artefact Room to practise it on a Boggart there. The Boggart took the form of a purple-eyed and dishevelled Merula Snyde scolding Tulip for betraying her and Jacob's sibling transformed it to a ridiculously-dressed Merula using the spell. Subsequently, Tulip confessed that her greed and naivety had driven her to double-cross Merula, though Jacob's sibling urged her not to self-deprecate and gave her the benefit of the doubt when she swore she would never repeat the same mistake.[12]
They went back to Jacob's room and defeated the Boggart there in a similar manner. After searching, they found a note indicating the entrance to the next Cursed Vault might be in the Library because there had been more Boggarts than anywhere when someone had tampered with the vault before.[12]
Investigating a theft
"I not only saw the Three Broomsticks and Zonko's, I got to help Madam Rosmerta and Bilton Bilmes. […] Now I get to tell people I had an adventure with my favourite cousin and the Curse-Breaker!"
— Jules Egwu at the end of her tour[src]
Jacob's sibling, Andre and Jules in Zonko's with Bilton and the box of stolen pranks
On the Hogsmeade station platform, Jacob's sibling met Jules Egwu who came to visit his cousin Andre at Hogwarts, and started a tour by going to the Three Broomsticks Inn to have Butterbeer. However, Madam Rosmerta's Butterscotch had all been stolen, rendering making Butterbeer impossible. They also heard that a whole box of pranks from Zonko's Joke Shop and Penny's Mallowsweet were missing. When Andre and Jules found the box of pranks, Bilton noticed the absence of Sugar Quills, which made Jacob's sibling realise the thief was only after the sweets.[60]
Jacob's sibling and Andre seeing Jules and the Demiguise off at Hogsmeade station
The students designed a trap which lured the thief out, but they couldn't see them, suggesting that they could make themself invisible. Combining these clues with the white hairs they had found at several crime scenes, Jacob's sibling, Liz and Hagrid reached the conclusion that the thief may have been a Demiguise. With help from Penny, the students set up another trap involving sweets coated with Sleeping Draught, which would make Demiguises visible. The trap was successful in enticing and revealing the thief, which turned out to indeed be a Demiguise. Jules decided to bring it home with her and Jacob's sibling saw her off in Hogsmeade.[60]
Convincing Barnaby Lee
Barnaby Lee: "I've spent my entire life trying to get as strong as possible. Even after my dad was gone…"
Jacob's sibling: "Well, I know you're strong, and I think you're a good person. I'm glad you're helping us instead of Merula."
— Barnaby convinced to help Jacob's sibling[src]
Jacob's sibling went to the Library with some friends while Tulip continued to search Jacob's room. Jacob's sibling found a note that suggested the Restricted Section and decided to meet up with Tulip, but encountered Merula along the way. Tulip suggested Jacob's sibling team up with Barnaby Lee to deal with Merula. They met with Barnaby and through their persuasion, Barnaby realised he would like to work with them more than with Merula, his current affiliation. He challenged them to a duel and drank Butterbeer with them.[61]
Bonding with Talbott Winger
Jacob's sibling: "Does this mean what I think it does?"
Talbott Winger: "Yes, I can't talk my way out of admitting it any longer... You're my friend, [name], and I'm happy to finally have someone I can rely on and trust."
— Talbott admitting Jacob's sibling was his friend[src]
Penny Haywood told Jacob's sibling that her friend Talbott Winger had been spending time alone and missing classes, so Jacob's sibling went to check on him. He was about to tell Jacob's sibling what he had been up to when they discovered Merula Snyde had been spying on them invisibly, possibly under the Disillusionment Charm. They suspected Merula had heard the part about Talbott being an unregistered Animagus, so Jacob's sibling went to confront Merula, who didn't show an interest in reporting them but didn't promise to not do so either. They then studied Obliviate and may have used it on Merula so she didn't remember anymore.[62][63]
Talbott revealed that his necklace was missing, whose feather had been extracted from his mother's Animagus form, a white swan. Jacob's sibling helped find the necklace. They made use of their advantage of transforming into animals and eventually decided it was in Filch's office or being played with by Mrs Norris. They saw Mrs Norris with the necklace, and Jacob's sibling transformed into their Animagus form to distract her while Talbott retrieved the necklace. Talbott then admitted it was the anniversary of their parents' murder, which, together with the missing necklace, were what had been letting him down of late. Talbott befriended Jacob's sibling after this experience.[62]
Entering the Vault of Fear
Tulip Karasu: "There's something written here. "To open, a wizard must make the ultimate sacrifice." You have to die to open the vault?"
Jacob's sibling: "No… I think it means you have to be willing to give up magic. Jacob understood…"
Jacob's sibling's friend: "What do you mean?"
Jacob's sibling: "I thought Jacob's wand was broken when he was expelled, but what if he broke it himself… to open this vault? I've kept the broken pieces with me. Maybe if I touch them to the column…"
— Jacob's sibling realising the meaning of the message[src]
Jacob's sibling invited a friend (possibly Rowan, Bill or Tonks) along with Tulip and Barnaby to enter the Vault of Fear. They went to the Library and the friend distracted Madam Pince so they could enter the Restricted Section. Before entering, Merula and Ismelda showed up. Jacob's sibling won a duel with Merula and Barnaby stayed back to hold them off while the rest went on. They searched the Restricted Section and found a way to enter the Vault. Barnaby rejoined the team and they went in.[64]
Jacob's sibling and their friends in the Vault of Fear
The Vault became covered in mist and they found three Boggarts, all taking the form of Voldemort and kidnapping one of Jacob's sibling's friends. Jacob's sibling used Riddikulus to defeat them all, before a mysterious voice said it was too late and made their friends vanish. Jacob's sibling faced another Boggart Voldemort and won a duel. The mist cleared up and Jacob's sibling used Jacob's broken wand as an "ultimate sacrifice" to open the centre column of the Vault, inside which were a map of the Forbidden Forest and an arrow. They took them and left the Vault.[64]
Jacob's sibling and their friends went to Three Broomsticks to drink Butterbeer and celebrate their success. Professor Dumbledore visited and called Jacob's sibling back to his office. He listened to Jacob's sibling's vault-breaking story and explained that during his absence, he went to invite a professional Curse-Breaker to Hogwarts. He later awarded Jacob's sibling one hundred points.[65]
Fourth year
In their fourth year, Jacob's sibling played Keeper after the original Keeper graduated.[8]
Meeting Patricia Rakepick
At the start of 1987–1988 school year, Professor Dumbledore introduced Madam Patricia Rakepick, a Curse-Breaker invited to the school, at the Start-of-Term Feast.[66]
A sleepwalking epidemic spread throughout the school due to the opening of a third, unknown Cursed Vault, with victims apparently heading to the Forbidden Forest. One of the first victims was Tulip Karasu, who was sent to the Hospital Wing. She and Jacob's sibling talked about the incident and concluded that the third vault was likely located in the forest. Jacob's sibling attracted the attention of Madam Rakepick and she taught them the Shield Charm.[66]
Learning the Patronus Charm
Jacob's sibling met with Ben Copper in the Artefact Room. They found a black quill and untransfigured it to reveal another note from R saying something would be unleashed. Penny Haywood was later found in the Hospital Wing, having been attacked by a mysterious creature. Jacob's sibling and Tonks searched the Training Grounds, where Jacob's sibling was faced with a Dementor. Tonks arrived in time and cast the Patronus Charm to drive the Dementor away.[67][68]
Jacob's sibling asked Tonks to teach them the Patronus Charm, and Tonks brought them to Hogsmeade to play a prank to enlighten their mood. However, they found another note from R there, saying the Dementors were unleashed but nothing more. While preparing for the study, Merula Snyde joined them. Although their first attempts were unsuccessful, they learned more from Professor McGonagall. They found the Dementor again on the Training Grounds, and Jacob's sibling successfully conjured a corporeal Patronus which chased the Dementor out of the school. Afterwards, Merula discovered another note from R saying congratulations.[67]
Learning about Rakepick
Jacob's sibling decided to investigate Rakepick and asked the professors their opinions about her, which were mostly negative. Rakepick found out about that and invited Jacob's sibling to a private conversation, in which she told them to stop doing so, while continuing with her plan of using their assistance.[69]
Preparing for the Forbidden Forest
Jacob's sibling asked Professor Kettleburn what is the best way to go to the Forbidden Forest, and he agreed to answer that question if they studied enough about bowtruckles. At some point, they received a forged letter supposedly signed by Kettleburn, which was actually a bait to lure them to the Courtyard, where a cloaked figure attacked them with the Full Body-Bind Curse and told them to stay away from the Cursed Vaults, the Forbidden Forest and Rakepick, further adding that "death is coming to Hogwarts" and may come to them as well if they disobeyed. The figure told that someone would eventually remove the curse, but it is unknown who did so.[70]
Kettleburn, after satisfied with Jacob's sibling's study on bowtruckles, answered their question. He said that by using a broom they could get to the forest mostly undetected. Meanwhile, Rakepick repeatedly invited Jacob's sibling, their friends, as well as their enemies Merula and Ismelda, to meet at the Training Grounds for a little competition to elect an assistant to her. They learned the Blasting Curse and duelled one another.[71]
Attending the Celestial Ball
The Celestial Ball
Dumbledore announced in the Great Hall that a Celestial Ball would soon take place. Jacob's sibling helped Penny become the leader of the decorating committee and made decorations with friends. They convinced a couple of their friends, who had refused to go to the ball, to join them, while Andre Egwu helped design suits for them. He also designed three outfits for Jacob's sibling, who chose one from them shortly before the ball. They attended the ball with a date and had fun.[72]
Searching for the Forest Vault
They then proceeded to try to get a broom, first by asking Madam Hooch to borrow one, which she refused due to the Black Lake incident and not trusting them, and later by attempting to steal one from Filch's office, where all brooms they found were broken. They incidentally found, however, another message transfigured into a black quill, which was a threat from R to Rakepick telling her to leave Hogwarts. As a last resort, they asked another student to borrow their broom; the student was reluctant at first, but Jacob's sibling managed to convince them to borrow the broom by talking to them at Three Broomsticks.[73]
Jacob's sibling later went to the Forbidden Forest by broomstick together with Charlie Weasley and another friend. They landed at a grove, which had been pinpointed as the ideal entry point by them, but found no sign of a Cursed Vault. They returned to the castle, and Jacob's sibling searched for a missing drawing of their brother Jacob in his room, which turned out to be a closer examination of the grove. It revealed a structure behind the grove as a Centaur Camp.[74]
Jacob's sibling and another friend went to the grove once more, where they met and duelled Torvus, who told them afterwards that Jacob had stolen one of his arrows that had belonged to his father. Jacob's sibling showed him the arrow they had found in the Vault of Fear, but its arrowhead was missing. Torvus said that his father had told him about the Forest Vault and wanted to help Jacob when he had tried to enter the Vault. Jacob had wanted to use Torvus' arrow to open its door and break the curse, but Torvus had refused, as it had been his family's heirloom, so Jacob had stolen it from the Camp, which had led to Torvus' exile. Jacob's sibling offered to find the arrowhead, and Torvus in exchange would read the planets to look into the future.[74]
Jacob's sibling later met with Charlie in the Three Broomsticks Inn and found out that he knew Torvus too. They went back to Jacob's room to research the arrowhead, and found a drawing which depicted the arrowhead as having been carved from a single giant gemstone. Below it was a note that suggested Jacob had buried it to hide it from "both of them".[75]
Going on a date
Jacob's sibling was caught writing a note to somebody they had a crush on during Potions class. Several friends of them helped them find some hiding spots from the rumours about them, and Bill Weasley told them some dating advices. Tonks and Charlie helped them select a date location, and Andre Egwu designed their outfit. They asked their date out in the Library and they agreed.[76][77]
Andre met with Jacob's sibling in the Transfiguration Classroom and possibly did some makeup and grew some facial hair on them. They invited their date to a location in Hogsmeade, but couldn't think of much to talk about. Tonks and Charlie came to sit a few feets away, and Tonks later made some mess around them, so the owner closed the place and the date ended in a failure. They talked to Hagrid about it, who suggested them meet with their date again. They talked with each other to eliminate worries and stargazed together in the Courtyard.[76]
Searching for the arrowhead
Jacob's sibling decided to borrow Madam Rakepick's Niffler, Sickleworth, to help them dig for the head of Torvus' arrow.[78] Rakepick later came searching too, but it turned out she only wanted a key back. After failing to find it inside of Hogwarts Castle,[79] they went to the Forest Grove with Charlie and another student. Sickleworth ran inside a hole and they followed his trace there, where they met a Red Cap and were driven out of the hole. They went back to Hogwarts Castle, met Tonks and learned about Red Caps together.[80]
Jacob's sibling and Penny gathered ingredients and brewed some Beautification Potion together. Before they could fly into the Forbidden Forest, however, Professor Snape discovered them, broke their broom and told them to expect further letters.[81]
Spying on Rakepick
Jacob's sibling later went to see Snape, and Snape told them he had only acted to look as if they had been at odds, and that Madam Rakepick had been watching them ever since she had arrived. He asked them to help him uncover her true motivations at Hogwarts, by fetching potion ingredients from strange places and watching if Rakepick would also be there.[82]
Jacob's sibling went to the Great Hall and saw Rakepick talking to Filch about the key she just found. Filch told Rakepick he had received the key as a part of a mysterious package along with three Black Quills. They then went to the Three Broomsticks Inn, and saw Rakepick talking to Rosmerta about the notebook Jacob had left here and asking whether Jacob had also left a map of Hogwarts, which had been in Filch's office but was no longer there. They then went to the Hospital Wing, and saw Rakepick discussing the sleepwalking epidemic with Madam Pomfrey. Rakepick spotted them and revealed she knew they were spying for Snape.[82]
Jacob's sibling returned to meet Snape, and Snape told them he believed Rakepick had a student as a co-conspirator. He expected Rakepick to know about his intentions, and said that Rakepick would be waiting for his response. He gave Jacob's sibling a bottle of Garrotting Gas because he believed Rakepick might try to kill them.[82]
Preparing for the Forest Vault
Jacob's sibling, Charlie and a friend returned to the Red Cap's Hole with their Beautification Potion and used it on the Red Cap. He was alarmed by his slightly more handsome look and climbed away, allowing Sickleworth to find the arrowhead. They then went to the Forest Grove, and Jacob's sibling cast the Levitation Charm on themselves to see higher, and found Torvus. They repaired his arrow and gave it back, but Torvus said he needed them to bring Hagrid to him.[83]
At this time, a lot of magical creatures were at large around the castle, and Jacob's sibling helped Hagrid, Professor Kettleburn and Amos Diggory recapture them.[84]
Jacob's sibling and their friends did some preparation for the Forest Vault, during which Jacob's sibling learned Arania Exumai from Madam Rakepick.[85] They then went to invite Hagrid on their trip, but his hut was unfortunately filled with Bundimuns.[86]
Jacob's sibling went to the courtyard to finalise their plan with their friends, but Charlie and Rowan were hit with a Full Body-Bind Curse, leaving Jacob's sibling to duel with the reappeared R's messenger. Then Madam Rakepick appeared and defeated the messenger. They lifted the messenger's disguise, only to find that it was Ben Copper, who didn't seem to remember what had happened.[86]
Jacob's sibling later returned to Hagrid's Hut, told Hagrid what had happened and helped him clear the Bundimuns with the Scouring Charm, after which Hagrid agreed to go into the Forest with them.[86]
Entering the Forest Vault
Jacob's sibling, Charlie, Hagrid and a friend (possibly Penny, Bill or Rowan) entered the Forbidden Forest and met with Torvus. They entered the Spider's Lair and encountered an Acromantula immediately. Hagrid requested to take a look around, which the Acromantula agreed, but then he trapped Charlie, Hagrid and Torvus in webs. Their friend temporarily took care of the Acromantula while Jacob's sibling managed to save them using the Severing Charm. However, the Acromantula then recovered and duelled Jacob's sibling. In the end, Jacob's sibling used Arania Exumai on the Acromantula and won.[87]
Jacob's sibling and their friends entering the Forest Vault
They found the door to the Forest Vault and entered. Jacob's sibling touched the centre column, but nothing happened, suggesting they should once again use their brother Jacob's wand. They then heard Jacob's voice again, telling them only the final Cursed Vault was real, he was trapped in the next Vault, and they shouldn't let "them" get their first. They used Torvus' arrow on the column and it opened, revealing a portrait of a dragon and a sweater.[87]
On their way out of the Forest, Jacob's sibling and their friends met Dumbledore and Filch. Dumbledore told Jacob's sibling they continued to exhibit little respect for Hogwarts's rules and himself, and gave them detention in the Kitchens under Pitts next year. They then went to the Three Broomsticks Inn to celebrate.[87]
Jacob's sibling got called into Dumbledore's office, but instead saw Madam Rakepick arrive via Floo Powder, who congratulated them and said that she would guide them into their fifth year and change the rules to make their search for the Vaults easier, before revealing that she would be the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor next year.[87]
Restoring order in the Forbidden Forest
"Engorgio!"
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, should be expanded. Please help the Harry Potter Wiki by expanding this article to give more complete coverage of its subject.
Jacob's sibling helped restoring order in the Forbidden Forest following their break-in of the Forest Vault.[88]
Fifth year
Jacob's sibling got O.W.L.s in Potions, Charms, Transfiguration, Herbology, Defence Against the Dark Arts, History of Magic and Care of Magical Creatures.[89] They most likely also got O.W.L.s in Divination and Astronomy, two subjects which they continued to take in their sixth year.[90]
An unusual start
At the start of the 1988–1989 school year, their fifth year, Jacob's sibling met Penny's younger sister Beatrice, who gave them a hand-made Puffskein. They later went to the Library and did some studying with Bill, Charlie and Percy Weasley.[91]
At night, Jacob's sibling and Bill were called by Professor Rakepick to the Training Grounds, and found out that they, along with Merula had been chosen as Rakepick's apprentice Curse-Breakers in their pursuit of the fourth Cursed Vault. She taught them how to cast the Incarcerous Spell and had Jacob's sibling demonstrate it on Merula much to her chagrin.[91]
Jacob's sibling then went to meet Ben Copper in the Courtyard where they discussed Ben's attack in the last year. Before they could finish their conversation, both were confronted and attacked by another figure in a red cloak. The figure subdued both with a Full Body-Bind Curse before repeating their previous warning that death was coming to Hogwarts and telling them that they needed them alive and that before the school term ended, one of their friends would die.[91]
Finding Beatrice Haywood
Jacob's sibling was later invited to the Three Broomsticks Inn by Merula along with Bill. The three talked about how they should start co-operating. Soon, Penny came to inform that Beatrice was missing. The four decided to split into pairs. Jacob's sibling and one of the three searched the Red Cap's Hole (where they found a rat which appeared to be Scabbers) and Spider's Lair (where they fighted the Acromantula again), but could not find Beatrice.[92]
Jacob's sibling returned to meet the rest in the Potions Classroom, where Penny was brewing a supposedly original potion which would temporarily gain her the power of Legilimency to look into her sister's mind. They helped her with the potion, but it didn't work.[92]
Merula discovered Beatrice stuck in a portrait beside the Grand Staircase and returned to alert the rest. They went there and met Rakepick, who said that the only way to free her was to find the next Cursed Vault and break its curse, and that Beatrice might soon lose her connection to reality. Filch came later and called Jacob's sibling to start their detention.[92]
Researching the portrait curse
Jacob's sibling went to the kitchens and started serving detention under Pitts' instructions. They met Jae Kim who was too serving detention for bringing contraband to Hogwarts and selling them. He offered Jacob's sibling an opportunity to receive Fizzing Whizzbees, a Probity Probe or a Revealer for free, among which Jacob's sibling chose one.[93]
They then met with their friends (including Jae) in the Library and studied ways for getting Beatrice out of the portrait. They guessed it might have been an Extension Charm that trapped Beatrice in, and studied it with Professor Flitwick, who had a similar thought, but believed it could've been something more ancient and sinister. He then suggested Jacob's sibling talk to Nearly Headless Nick, who might know the origin of this curse.[93]
Jacob's sibling and Sir Nicholas talked to the other portraits beside the Grand Staircase, and found out that Beatrice had approached the protraits after having heard strange sounds like crackling and the flapping of wings, had touched one and had been pulled inside immediately. The portrait of Merlin also said there had been a faceless interloper who had tampered with the portraits. Sir Nicholas suggested Jacob's sibling talk to the resident portrait painter, Badeea Ali.[93]
Sir Cadogan's knightly trials
While the portrait curse hadn't been broken, Sir Cadogan gave Jacob's sibling a series of knightly trials to help them do so and also prepare for future perils. The first trial took place on the "Land of Magical Creatures", which was really the paddock where they had Care of Magical Creatures classes, and involved cleaning up the mess left by creatures such as a Fire Crab, a Bowtruckle and a Unicorn. When they finished, Cadogan instructed them to look for a magical scroll in the Library. They got it from Madam Pince, who also advised them to go to the Charms Classroom, where they would later help Professor Flitwick move heavy items. Professor Snape also came along and asked Jacob's sibling to collect some Knotgrass for him. They did this with Andre, who made them realise the trials were essentially a professor's to-do list. They discussed this with Hagrid, who suggested they demand an answer from Cadogan.[94]
Soon, Jacob's sibling gathered a few of their friends and learned from Cadogan there would be three more trials. They "dined in abundance" in the Kitchens and challenged Ben to a duel. The final trial turned out to be a rematch with the Ice Knight, who Professor Rakepick had reanimated, so Jacob's sibling found Bill and practised the Fire-Making Spell just like they did in their second year. They arrived outside the Vault of Ice once more with Bill and the Ice Knight showed up, beginning their fight. When they were finished, Jacob's sibling returned to meet Cadogan and reviewed their deeds, before Cadogan deemed them worthy of knighthood and rewarded them a suit of knightly armour.[94]
Learning about the Marauder's Map
Jacob's sibling met Badeea, who had actually painted Beatrice stuck in the portrait. They talked about magical portraits, while Badeea suggested Jacob's sibling be innovative and try new things. They went back to detention with Jae, who revealed Badeea knew how to Apparate and also invented her own spells. They met Merula in the Three Broomsticks Inn and persuaded her to help save Beatrice. Merula suggested them search for the Marauder's Map.[95]
Remembering Rakepick's conversation with Rosmerta last year, they planned to shock Filch to induce them to talk about the Map. Filch opened a gift box, saw a cake with Mrs Norris' face and became happy, allowing Jacob's sibling to find out that it was Filch's guess that Peeves had stolen the Map from his office.[95]
Jacob's sibling and Jae went to the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom, and made Peeves appear. Peeves said a friend of his, who hated Jacob more than potions, didn't want him to tell them where the map was, then disappeared. Jacob's sibling followed the trace and talked to Professor Snape, who didn't tell them anything about the Map, but said Penny had lost her focus and her chance of passing her O.W.L.s.[95]
Jacob's sibling went to comfort Penny, who wanted to brew a potion and needed the ingredients. They got a Unicorn horn from the Forest Grove, some Porcupine quills from the Transfiguration Classroom, some powdered Moonstone from Jae, and some Syrup of Hellebore from the Herbology Classroom. They used them to brew a batch of Draught of Peace, which successfully calmed Penny down.[96]
Outdoor celebration of magic
Hagrid asked Jacob's sibling to meet him in his garden and announced his participation in the upcoming outdoor celebration of magic. They asked around in the Great Hall and learned about the activities of the festival and the role of festival ambassadors, for which there were already students competing. For the first lesson of the celebration, Professor McGonagall taught students the Gobstone to Skunk spell in the Courtyard, but the lesson went awry when Tulip tried to pet her skunk, which filled the space with unpleasant smells. Merula talked to Jacob's sibling about her interest in becoming an ambassador before Professor Snape's potions-reviewing class, which culminated in a quiz of potion ingredients given to the two. After class, Jacob's sibling discovered a love note under a gobstone. Professor Flitwick chose to have the Charms class be in Hagrid's Garden, where students would practise the Shrinking Charm on the pumpkins. Another love letter showed up in the Three Broomsticks Inn, where Jacob's sibling had conversations with both Penny and Merula, who were competing to be ambassadors. Throughout the celebration, they had also received implicit invitations to be one's date from several individuals.[97]
Jacob's sibling flying on a Griffin
It became apparent to Jacob's sibling that they might be having more than one secret admirers. When they and Andre were discussing their festival outfit, Andre expressed interest in this situation and decided to investigate the case. The next lesson was jointly conducted by Madam Hooch and Professor Kettleburn, during which Jacob's sibling learned how to fly on a Griffin. Andre then discovered another secret admirer's note for them. They examined the evidences and Andre suggested there might have been a lot more than three admirers. Nevertheless, Jacob's sibling proceeded to finding Hagrid on the Quidditch pitch to help with festival preparations, but spotted Murphy instead in the commentary box, who thought dating and Quidditch were alike. Back in the Courtyard with Andre, where their friends were all present, Jacob's sibling finally decided to ask a friend on a date. They invited them to Hog's Head and expressed their interest to them, who affirmed that the feelings were mutual.[97]
Festival dance
When Andre's outfits were ready, Jacob's sibling picked one from the two. They arrived at the main festival and found their date approaching them, also dressed stylishly. They checked out the activities at the festival, such as Puffskein-tossing and face-painting, which their date tried on them. Just then, Murphy announced the arrival of a special guest, Gilderoy Lockhart, who returned since his last visit on Valentine's Day and gave a speech all about himself, before asking the dancing area to be cleared for him to have a duelling exhibition. Naturally, the students didn't want to relinquish the opportunity to dance, but Jacob's sibling volunteered for a duel with Lockhart on the Training Grounds to get him quickly out of there. Lockhart turned out to be quite weak after all, but he insisted on another duel after the first one, which made them and their date worry about having the dance on time. They then thought of a brilliant idea and turned the gobstone they had picked up into a skunk, which sprayed Lockhart and caused him to depart. The students were then able to return to the festival, and Jacob's sibling enjoyed a dance with their date. Near the end, the two were announced to have been elected as festival ambassadors, and they took off around the pitch together on a broom, when Jacob's sibling received a kiss.[97]
Learning about Duncan and Jacob
Penny invited Jacob's sibling to talk to the Fat Friar, who suggested they go ask Nearly Headless Nick. They met him along with Bill, Charlie and Percy Weasley (who brought Scabbers) in Jacob's room. Nick told them Jacob had indeed possessed the Map, but they instead found a letter from Jacob about him bringing the Map to Olivia Green, who had been in Ravenclaw. Jacob's sibling then met the Grey Lady with Tulip, Talbott and Andre, and found out from her that Jacob and Olivia had had another friend, Duncan Ashe, who had been in Slytherin. They spoke to the Bloody Baron with Merula, Ismelda, Barnaby and Liz, who revealed that Duncan was now a ghost and was the friend of Peeves.[98]
Jacob's sibling, Bill and Charlie found Duncan in the Prefects' Bathroom, who was, as expected, not friendly towards Jacob's sibling. He accused Jacob of ruining his life and told Jacob's sibling to go find out what had happened themselves.[98]
From Hagrid, Madam Hooch and Bilton Bilmes, Jacob's sibling learned that Duncan had borrowed a new broom after his had been destroyed, and that he had been a great mischief maker who would deconstruct things and put them back together. Jacob's sibling, Tulip and Merula went to Jacob's room and found a letter from R to Jacob, which suggested Jacob and his friends had been working for R and mentioned rats and Centaurs.[99]
Jacob's sibling and Charlie then went to the Forest Grove to meet Torvus, who was surprised to know that Duncan was dead. Torvus told them that Jacob and Duncan had planned to enter the Forest Vault and Duncan had worked on an extra-powerful Erumpent Potion. Duncan had wanted them to stick together, but Jacob had wanted to split up, resulting in the potion exploding, which had killed Duncan. They went back to the Prefects' Bathroom and met Duncan, only to find that Jacob and Duncan hadn't wanted to work with R at all, but R had manipulated Duncan into brewing an extra-explosive Erumpent Potion. Duncan blamed Jacob because he had let himself get expelled because of R, and claimed that Jacob was now a member of R and a feared wizard in Knockturn Alley. Jacob's sibling asked about the Marauder's Map, which, according to Duncan, had been given away by Peeves. Duncan said Mundungus Fletcher could help them and tell more about Jacob.[99]
The All-Wizard Tournament
On the Care of Magical Creatures grounds, Hagrid and Professor Kettleburn announced, to a group of selected students including Jacob's sibling, their plan of hosting an original All-Wizard Tournament, which would help them prepare for a potentially upcoming Triwizard Tournament. Jacob's sibling was further motivated to participate when Hagrid explained that the final Cursed Vaults could hold similar danger, and their friends were excited about it as well. They spent some time learning about the Triwizard Tournament and its cancellation in the Library, where Hagrid disclosed the first task would involve Nifflers.[3]
The first task took place in the History of Magic Classroom, was worth 100 points and was about finding as much shiny objects as possible using Nifflers. Due to its simplicity, it didn't receive much positive feedback, but Hagrid and Kettleburn promised the second task would be more challenging, and after announcing the winner, who was Jacob's sibling, they explained that the hints to the second task were hidden inside the contestants' shiny objects. Jacob's sibling met Jae and Andre in the Transfiguration Classroom and Untransfigured a shiny object into a jar of unidentified matter. After some examination, Liz indicated the matter were Doxy eggs.[3]
The second task took place on the Training Grounds, was worth 300 points and involved catching a Pixie on a broom, which had been cast the Hurling Hex. When Jacob's sibling was about to catch the Pixie, Merula bumped them, which led to Andre taking the lead and catching the Pixie, but not before a mass of Doxies escaped their cages and created chaos, injuring several students who were taken to the Hospital Wing imminently. Hagrid and Kettleburn were no longer confident that continuing the tournament was a good move, and they, Jacob's sibling and several others talked to Dumbledore, who didn't intend to cancel the tournament but was determined to oversee the third task, and said the clue to it would find them.[3]
At night, Jacob's sibling met a couple of students gathered by Badeea, who couldn't sleep due to the tournament. Andre and Merula decided to practise spells, and Jacob's sibling and the others talked about the upcoming task, but no one really felt better. A Niffler left them a coin, which was Untransfigured into a Howler playing their friends' voices saying they were trapped by a Manticore in the Forbidden Forest. Arriving in the Forest Grove, they shot spells towards the Manticore but it didn't work due to its resistance to all charms, and Jacob's sibling saved Merula's life by pushing her out of its tail's reach. They collected their wits and formed a plan of blasting the tree branch on top of the Manticore and knocking it unconscious, which turned out to be successful. Hagrid, Kettleburn and Dumbledore then came out of the trees behind which they were monitoring the students, and congratulated them for finishing the final task.[3]
They gathered in the Great Hall once more and listened to Dumbledore, who declared there had been a winner of the final task despite it being completed by collaborative efforts, and that the winner was Jacob's sibling for recognising the solution to be working together and convincing their competition of it. Another 500 points were awarded to them, who stepped up and accepted the All-Wizard Cup as the final victor of the tournament.[3]
Preparing for Knockturn Alley
Jae suggested using Floo Network to go to Knockturn Alley to meet Mundungus Fletcher. Remembering Rakepick had used it last school year, they went to Defence Against the Dark Arts class, demonstrated defeating a Boggart, and asked Rakepick to teach them. Rakepick knew their true purpose, so she gathered all her apprentices to train their duelling techniques, gave Jacob's sibling a private lesson on instinctive reaction, and even sent them to the Forest Grove to face Kettleburn's lost Chimaera. Liz Tuttle appeared in time and comforted the Chimaera with red meat, saving both of them.[100]
Jacob's sibling returned to speak to Rakepick, who believed it would be better if they were accompanied by someone else. They invited a friend and learned the Stunning Spell from Bill.[101]
The Valentine's Day Ball
Professor Dumbledore called another special assembly in the Great Hall and announced the upcoming Valentine's Day Ball. It surprised and disappointed Jacob's sibling and fellow students when he said to have put Madam Pince in charge of it, who would see to the planning of the ball with "utmost seriousness". After growing some flowers in Herbology class using the Herbivicus Charm, Jacob's sibling got the idea of bringing them to Pince for approval, but Pince was concerned that they would remind one of what they didn't have on a holiday and thus make one feel more alone. Jacob's sibling tried to explain to her the students' vision of the ball, but Pince was insistent that there be no floral arrangements and sugary refreshments, and the only sounds she would like to hear that night were a lonely classical fortepiano. She also suggested Jacob's sibling take it up with the Headmaster if they had issues with her arrangements, which was exactly what they did, and they received some wise advice from Dumbledore.[102]
They invited Penny to speak to Pince with them, but she wasn't willing to change her mind. They then witnessed a friendly interaction between Pince and Mr Filch, who they believed to be her own valentine. They talked to Merula about their idea of using Filch to indirectly convince Pince, and Merula used the Colour Change Charm to play a prank on Mrs Norris, which inevitably caught Filch's attention and he called Jacob's sibling to his office. There, they reversed the colour change and pretended that Pince wanted sophisticated refreshments, refined music and elegant flowers for the ball. They even arranged with Andre to design a makeover for him, which he wore to a meeting with Pince, Jacob's sibling and Talbott. At the end of the meeting, she was finally convinced to organise a fairy tale Valentine's Day Ball.[102]
Jacob's sibling chat with Chiara and Jae about music and food for the ball respectively, and when Pince came down to the Kitchens to look for Jacob's sibling, she tried Jae's fairy cakes and talked about her idea of putting up a mural in the hall. They then met with Badeea, who agreed to paint one with them, and she also let them choose the type of story they would be telling with it. They also went to the forest in the Magical Creatures Reserve with Barnaby and recruited their fairy friend and her own friends to provide light at the ball. Throughout this whole experience, every student Jacob's sibling had talked to had asked them, explicitly or implicitly, to be their date, and they had a hard time deciding who to choose. They talked to Tonks in the Courtyard where all their friends gathered, and Jacob's sibling finally decided to ask one of them to be their date, who heartily agreed. They also put on an outfit Andre designed for them.[102]
The surprise scene Jacob's sibling's date set up for them
At the ball, Jacob's sibling and their date met Pince and Filch, who thanked Jacob's sibling for their help. They had their first dance on the dance floor following the rhythm of the music played by the enchanted instruments set up by Badeea. After the dance, Dumbledore congratulated them for their efforts leading to an excellent ball, and pointed them to Pince and Filch who were sharing a romantic moment together. He also reminded them to go the Library to meet their date, who had prepared a surprise scene for them and gave them a storybook symbolising the romance they had for each other.[102]
Visiting Knockturn Alley
Rakepick met them in Dumbledore's office and used the Floo Powder on the fireplace before they stepped in it and were transported to Diagon Alley, which was safer as a landing point.[103]
They then went to Knockturn Alley and asked around about Fletcher. They found out from Jane Court that Fletcher had lost a duel recently and had been going to Ollivanders, so they went there, but didn't find Fletcher. He had been there though to ask about the wand of his opponent, whose approach and stance had been very unique. Ollivander had suggested Fletcher go to Madam Villanelle, a linguist, in Flourish and Blotts to learn more about the way his opponent had shouted incantations.[103]
They visited Villanelle, and while waiting for her to finish her business, they found a book that had a strange invisible message about a "vault portrait". Villanelle later told them that though she hadn't recognised anything from Fletcher's recollection of his opponent's incantations, he had told her that the wizard had been in white robes and had a tattoo of a skeletal snake or dragon, making her suggest him go to Borgin and Burkes.[103]
Before entering Borgin and Burkes, they encountered a witch, who demanded something from them. She cast the Slug-vomiting Charm on Jacob's sibling's friend, and Jacob's sibling duelled her, only to attract more witches and wizards. At this moment, Rakepick appeared and defeated them. She then told them she had tracked down Fletcher and he was waiting in the Three Broomsticks Inn.[103]
Fletcher told them he had managed to get the Marauder's Map out of Hogwarts, but had been attacked and robbed by someone from behind. Before he would tell them more, he asked for some Venomous Tentacula Seeds, Acromantula Venom and Chimaera Eggs, which they got from the Herbology Classroom, Spider's Lair and Care of Magical Creatures grounds. Fletcher then recounted that the man who'd attacked him had transformed into something before running off and might have gotten the Map into Hogwarts by now, and suggested that this might have been the same person who had attacked Jacob's sibling at the start of the school year.[104]
Looking for the vault portrait
After Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Rakepick told Jacob's sibling there had been rumours of a portrait of a Cursed Vault hidden in Hogwarts. They met Badeea on the Grand Staircase and talked to other portraits but didn't get anything useful. Then they met their friends in the Library and didn't find anything either. They met Jae in the Kitchens and talked to the house-elves, and from one of them, they learned that some Gryffindor students had asked an elf about the portrait years ago.[105]
They went into the Gryffindor Common Room during a Quidditch match with Jae to look for the portrait, but were discovered by Percy, who was searching for Scabbers. Percy accused them of using magic outside of class (though it was only the Wand-Lighting Charm), and was about to report them to everyone he could think of, when Jacob's sibling proposed to find Scabbers with him. They asked Hagrid for borrowing Fang, which he agreed.[105]
Performing a play
In the Great Hall, Professor Dumbledore recounted the performance of The Fountain of Fair Fortune at Hogwarts decades ago and the damage it did to the whole school, but said that Professor Flitwick had convinced him to put up another play. Flitwick introduced to the audience his original play, Equinox Enchanted, and an intimate scene in it in which the leads would express their love towards one another, which Jacob's sibling and their friends found to be a big undertaking. They talked to Flitwick himself, who further explained the plot details of the play and gave them advices on a successful audition. They helped each other prepare for it, and Jacob's sibling also learned some movement techniques from Diego, the Choreographer and Assistant Director. During the audition, Jacob's sibling's partner, Barnaby, forgot his line, and the two of them went completely off the script, but Flitwick was very impressed with their improvisational skills. After Jacob's sibling helped Badeea with her artworks for the play, Flitwick announced that they had been chosen as a lead, along with the exact student Jacob's sibling wanted to co-star with.[106]
Before the first rehearsal, Flitwick brought up the superstition that saying the name of The Fountain of Fair Fortune during rehearsals would bring ill fortune, and while Jacob's sibling was doubtful about it, some of their friends, including Diego, was careful not to risk it. Later, Barnaby introduced to Jacob's sibling his pet Knarl, Knarl, who Flitwick believed to be suitable for their partner during a dance scene with a magical creature. They tried to teach him some stage directions, but didn't have much luck except for the "stay" instruction. Flitwick then decided to change the script to include a duelling scene and reviewed it with Jacob's sibling and Diego in the Duelling Club. Jacob's sibling also helped Andre and Talbott search for costume sketches.[106]
During a conversation with Andre, Jacob's sibling became afraid of stage fright, so they asked Penny to brew some Calming Draught. They searched for ingredients in the Artefact Room, but were still missing a crocodile heart, which they had to ask Jae to obtain, and surprisingly, Jae had a lot of collectibles from crocodiles including their hearts, so they started brewing immediately. The potion, however, looked unusually purple, and when Jacob's sibling drank some, they felt their mouth burning, which Jae thought was because of too much peppermint oil he had added. Fortunately, Professor McGonagall restored them with a few waves of her wand, and in return, Jacob's sibling and Jae helped her tidy up her classroom.[106]
Jacob's sibling performing Equinox Enchanted
The time of dress rehearsal came, but Barnaby had lost Knarl, so it took the crew some time to find him, and when they did, Barnaby accidentally uttered the words of ill fortune and yelled after realising his mistake, sending Knarl off in a fright while making a big mess on the stage. Flitwick was shocked when all the decorations had been ruined and he cancelled the show immediately. Jacob's sibling wouldn't admit defeat and gathered their friends in the Three Broomsticks Inn, and they planned to put up the play there, but due to the confined space and limited resources, it had to be adapted to a one-wizard play. Flitwick was on board with this plan, and soon Andre finished Jacob's sibling's costume for the Spring Nymph. Later in the Inn, they took the stage and completed the performance to the resounding applause from the audience. Their original co-star met with them alone in the Great Hall after the show and shared the romantic scene with them like it should've been.[106]
Various findings
Jacob's sibling, Jae and Fang went to the Forest Grove and searched for Scabbers together with Torvus. They found some rat tracks which led to human shoeprints. They found some sandwich crumbs in the Prefects' Bathroom with Charlie. Following the cue, they searched the Kitchens, where Fang found some Fairy wings, and the Care of Magical Creatures grounds, where Fang found some cursed ice, and the Icy Corridor, where Fang found some animal fur, and the Cursed Corridor, where they found Scabbers at last with an old parchment.[107]
Jacob's sibling returned Fang to Hagrid and Scabbers to Percy. They discussed Scabbers with friends, during which Ben mentioned finding Scabbers in the Artefact Room once, and despite Percy's defence, the rest still found him suspicious. Ben later told Jacob's sibling he believed Scabbers had been following him and might have also been responsible for his memory loss. Jacob's sibling presented the parchment to Rakepick, who told them it was the Marauder's Map.[108]
Hunting for a Crumple-Horned Snorkack
While Jacob's sibling was having a drink with Barnaby and Chiara in the Three Broomsticks Inn, an interesting-looking wizard walked in and sat on a table who claimed to be in desperate need of someone for an extraordinary adventure. They recognised him as Xenophilius Lovegood, the publisher of The Quibbler, and he stood up on the table and said he was seeking journalists to provide photographic evidence of the existence of Crumple-Horned Snorkacks, which he have heard reports to have been spotted near Hogwarts. Barnaby and Chiara disagreed over whether it was real, but Jacob's sibling thought it would be an interesting opportunity if it did exist and they could take a picture of it, which would be placed on the front cover of the next issue. After some discussion, Chiara thought the reward money could be a big deal to her, and they agreed to try searching for it.[109]
Chiara taught Jacob's sibling a tracking spell and Jacob's sibling tracked down a niffler for practice. They then tried searching for a Crumple-Horned Snorkack in Hagrid's Garden, but found Barnaby with his camera, who was trying to snap a photo of a Moon Frog, which he thought Xenophilius might accept as well. The three went back to Three Broomsticks and tried to convince Xenophilius, and he agreed to take a photo of a Moon Frog if Crumple-Horned Snorkacks couldn't be found. Afterwards, Ismelda confronted them and said she was up to something big.[109]
Barnaby took Jacob's sibling to the forest in the Magical Creatures Reserve and said this had been where he had first seen the Moon Frog. After retracing his footsteps, Barnaby thought he had an idea of where the Moon Frog could be, and when he went off to find out, Jacob's sibling met with Chiara, who divulged that the "school supplies" she had been meaning to get from the reward money was actually for preventing losing control during her next transformation. When Jacob's sibling and Chiara talked to Ismelda, they were surprised to hear that Ismelda wasn't looking for a Crumple-Horned Snorkack at all, but instead was after something "definitely real".[109]
At night, Jacob's sibling followed Ismelda and her friends to Hagrid's garden and overheard them talking about capturing a werewolf before it transformed and exposing Dumbledore for harbouring a werewolf at Hogwarts. Terrible still, Ismelda was already suspecting Chiara, so Jacob's sibling decided to warn Chiara before she came, but Chiara then appeared, and when they prepared to use the Full Body-Bind Curse on Chiara, Jacob's sibling used the Knockback Jinx on her first, knocking her out of the curse's way. Chiara got away in time and Ismelda was determined to seek another chance.[109]
When Jacob's sibling spoke with Chiara again in the Courtyard, Chiara thanked them for saving her from the gang's curses, and when Jacob's sibling told her about Ismelda's intent, she was worried, so they played Wizard's Chess together to help them think the situation through. They came up with the idea of making Ismelda think it was a hoax, and Jacob's sibling talked to Barnaby, who suggested asking Tulip and Tonks for help. They formed a plan involving Barnaby telling Ismelda he had seen a werewolf near Hagrid's Garden and Tonks and Tulip wearing a werewolf disguise.[109]
Jacob's sibling then checked on Chiara, who was searching for ingredients for the Wolfsbane Potion in the Potions Classroom. They helped her, but didn't find any. When the time of executing the plan came, Jacob's sibling went down to Hagrid's Garden and saw the completed werewolf custome made by Tulip and Tonks. Jacob's sibling greeted Ismelda when she arrived, and pretended to search with her for the creature Barnaby'd told her that he'd spotted. Jacob's sibling pointed to a pumpkin, behind which Tulip and Tonks in the werewolf custome emerged and scared the life out of Ismelda, who asked Jacob's sibling for help. Tulip and Tonks then took off the custome, and Jacob's sibling faked their surprise towards them.[109]
The next day, Jacob's sibling and Chiara went to the Great Lake to meet with Barnaby and search for the Moon Frog. After a while, Barnaby came and claimed he had seen it, but had lost it again. Jacob's sibling then used the tracking spell to reveal the tracks of the Moon Frog, and the three eventually found it following the trace. Barnaby took a picture of it with his camera, and when Jacob's sibling noticed Glow Bugs flying above it, Barnaby said it looked familiar to him. Jacob's sibling realised it looked like Sir Ribbithe, which Liz was said to have been finding, and that the glow was because of him feasting on the Glow Bugs.[109]
Although it wasn't a real Moon Frog, when Jacob's sibling looked at the photo, he discovered a Quintaped, a very rare creature, in the background. They went back to Three Broomsticks and negotiated with Xenophilius, who decided to put the photo on the front page because of it. The students enjoyed some Butterbeer together, and when Jacob's sibling asked Tonks whether the Quintaped had been her in disguise again, she neither confirmed nor denied it.[109]
Following the Marauder's Map
At night, Rakepick explained to Jacob's sibling all about the Marauder's Map. It was her belief that the Map would show them the location of the man who attacked Mundungus Fletcher who would have the Vault Portrait, the key to the next Cursed Vault. They opened the Map and saw a person moving very fast, but before Jacob's sibling could see their name, Rakepick pocketed the Map. They did, however, see that person's locations.[110]
Jacob's sibling searched the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom with Barnaby, only to find a black quill on Rakepick's desk, which couldn't be Untransfigured. They then searched Filch's office with Tonks, and found some negative reports on Rakepick. They went on to search Jacob's room with Tulip and Merula and found another black quill, which Jacob's sibling Untransfigured into another Jacob's notebook, which recorded Jacob's collaboration with Rakepick, Rakepick's fear of the Cabal, and that she had saved Jacob's sibling's life years ago.[110]
Jacob's sibling talked to Rakepick, who denied everything written on the notebook. Realising that Rakepick only respected strength, they met Merula and practised spells. Merula thought this wasn't enough, and invited them to duel with Diego Caplan, her duelling instructor, which they did before facing Rakepick herself. Rakepick was still reluctant to divulge anything, but Jacob's sibling wouldn't compromise. They prepared to duel her, but she made the first move and broke their wand.[111]
Jacob's sibling and Rakepick then went to Ollivanders to purchase another wand. They met Fletcher once more in Knockturn Alley, who admitted he hadn't been attacked, but instead had sold the map to an unknown buyer by leaving it outside of Hog's Head Inn for them to pick up. Jacob's sibling went to Hog's Head and met Aberforth, who hated Fletcher and wouldn't talk about him, but gave them a letter from Albus. They then went to ask Albus, who revealed they were a Legilimens like their brother, and that Snape would teach them both Legilimency and Occlumency.[112]
Learning Legilimency and Occlumency
Jacob's sibling and Severus Snape discussing Legilimency and Occlumency
Snape started their lessons by breaking into their minds (seeing Jacob's sibling's times with their brother) and teaching them this ability. When Snape asked Jacob's sibling to look into his mind, he also used Occlumency to prevent them from doing this.[113]
Then he asked them to practise Legilimency elsewhere, so they used it on Filch, Rosmerta, Pitts and Barnaby. They found out from Rosmerta that she had once hidden Jacob from the Ministry. When they used it on Rakepick, she also used Occlumency to deny their access.[113]
They returned to meet Snape and practised Occlumency themselves. They hadn't perfected the skill by the time Snape used Legilimency on them again, but they were improving. When they asked why he was teaching them these, Snape answered that he would rather have liked to see them being a weapon against Rakepick than a pawn of hers. He then reminded them about the Garrotting Gas he had given them and mentioned that Rakepick would inevitably turn on them.[113]
The Great Hogwarts Cook-Off
With Madams Mary and Rosa Karasu visiting Hogwarts, a cook-off was to be held, inviting students to sign up for the competition, of which Mary and Rosa would be the judges. As they are Tulip's grans, she introduced them to Jacob's sibling personally, who was greeted affectionately by them. Tulip also asked for Jacob's sibling's help to co-organise the cook-off. The two discussed the event with Mary and Rosa and decided to recruit Badeea as a contestant. Badeea wanted to cook a fish stew, and after bartering a box of EaziKleen Self-Propelling Scourers with Madam Rosmerta, Jae successfully got them a fresh and delicious fish.[114]
The next candidate on the list was Diego, who was willing to bake an enchanted dancing flan. They consulted Professor Flitwick about what spell to use, and were taught the Locomotion Charm. Meanwhile, Tulip recruited Ismelda and Jae, who were cooking a meat pie with blood sausages and a tteokbokki respectively. They talked when Andre was designing some chef's robes, and alighted on the idea of inviting Murphy to be the host, who agreed and named the event the "Great Hogwarts Cook-Off".[114]
The Great Hogwarts Cook-Off
The cook-off was held in the Kitchens, during which the four contestant prepared their dishes while Murphy commentated. At the end, Mary and Rosa provided some critical insights towards each dish, but Ismelda was angered by her dough being called "sad and soggy" and transformed her pie into a monster, which destroyed Diego's flan. Jacob's sibling was quick to cast the Eradication Spell to wipe the monster out of existence, but even then, the cook-off had become a disaster. Tulip became very upset and left the scene, and though Jacob's sibling managed to cheer her up, the situation between Ismelda and Diego was more than intense. Jacob's sibling visited the two of them respectively and helped both of them with their affairs, and when Diego insisted on duelling to resolve the conflict, Jacob's sibling volunteered to duel him on behalf of Ismelda, effectively acting as her champion. After the duel, Diego and Ismelda reconciliated, and all of them went back to salvaging the cook-off.[114]
The opening of the feast
They gathered all the contestants and worked on improving their recipes. After they talked about what they loved about the dishes they chose, Jacob's sibling realised they could all make a progress by sharing their ingredients. The Madams Karasu were intrigued by the idea of collaboration, and heartily agreed to it. After the dishes were completed, students gathered in the Great Hall to have a feast, before Jacob's sibling was commended by the judges and the faculty for demonstrating the event's true spirit and upholding Hogwarts's ideals of community, collaboration and friendship.[114]
Rowan possessed
Dumbledore called them in and asked them to use Legilimency on him to find out the answers they were looking for. Later, just as Jacob's sibling were catching up with their friends, Rowan seemed to be possessed and acted like the unidentified cloaked figure. They attacked one of them, but was knocked unconscious by Ben. In the Hospital Wing, Madam Pomfrey examined Rowan and believed they had been under the Imperius Curse. Since one had to be near their target to cast the curse, Jacob's sibling recounted their surroundings, and together with Rakepick, they found Percy to be suspicious.[115]
In Knockturn Alley, Jacob's sibling and Rakepick continued their conversation. Rakepick had spoken to Percy, and though she didn't think Percy had the ability to cast the Imperius Curse, her instincts told her he was somehow intimately involved. Rakepick wanted to teach Jacob's sibling the Cruciatus Curse, but they didn't want to learn an Unforgivable Curse like it. She then demonstrated on a nearby dark wizard, who immediately screamed in pain. Witnessing this didn't change Jacob's sibling's mind, but Rakepick still believed it would be useful under certain circumstances.[115]
Forming a grand plan
When Jacob's sibling was back at Hogwarts, another student had been trapped in a portrait. They talked to other portraits, and following the clues they gave, they searched the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom with Badeea, and found a letter from Kettleburn. He had told Rakepick to purchase cats because the castle had a rat problem mainly in the upstairs corridors. They used the Revelio Charm there, and revealed Scabbers, who immediately transformed into his human form, Peter Pettigrew. The two duelled and Pettigrew was forced to tell them that Rakepick had stolen the Map and the vault portrait was actually a Portkey which now belonged to Peeves, but before finishing, he wiped Jacob's sibling's memory of this conversation. Rakepick, however, had arrived and heard the part of the portrait and Peeves.[116]
Rakepick gathered Jacob's sibling, Bill and Merula to talk about their plan of retrieving the portrait, and they decided to ask the House ghosts for help. During a Quidditch match between Hufflepuff and Slytherin, Diego led Jacob's sibling and another student to the Hufflepuff Common Room to consult the Fat Friar, but didn't receive much advice. They then went to the Slytherin Common Room and talked to Bloody Baron, who was reluctant to provide help. In the Gryffindor Common Room, Nearly Headless Nick generously offered some tactics. The Grey Lady in the Ravenclaw Common Room, on the other hand, only talked to them so that they could leave early. At the end of their conversation, she said the House ghosts couldn't help them, leading Jacob's sibling to think that maybe Professor Binns had certain ways around Peeves.[117]
They visited Binns, who still attempted to give them a lecture on the Goblin Rebellion of 1612. After learning their true motives, he tried to talk about Peeves, but only rounded back to the Goblin Rebellions. They then paid another visit to Duncan Ashe, who wanted Jacob's sibling to talk about their curse-breaking adventures first. Duncan, after satisfied with their stories, promised to set up a meeting with Peeves for them. He also mentioned that they need to do something big, in other words, cause chaos, to get his attention.[117]
Jacob's sibling met Duncan in the Courtyard and he said Peeves would want them to cast Lacarnum Inflamari on Snape or Filch. Duncan distracted them and Jacob's sibling cast the spell on one of them. Peeves then showed up, but only wanted some more chaos. They went to the Grand Staircase to annoy Sir Cadogan by crediting his defeat of Wyvern of Wye to Merlin, battled Kettleburn's Chimaera on the Training Grounds, started a food fight in the Kitchens, and tossed some Frog Spawn Soap into the bathtub in the Prefects' Bathroom, where Charlie was having a bath. After having seen all these, Peeves gave them a portrait of himself, which Jacob's sibling rejected naturally. When asked what would it take to hand out the vault portrait, Peeves said a masterpiece of pranks was needed for a masterpiece of portrait.[118]
Penny helped Jacob's sibling brew some Wit-Sharpening Potion and shared it while brainstorming with Tonks, Tulip and Jae. Tonks inadvertently inspired Jacob's sibling to invent their own spell, and they immediately talked to Badeea and found out she had already invented the Star Shower Spell, which they thought would be the perfect choice. The spell, however, wasn't working as she expected, so Jacob's sibling researched in the Restricted Section with Rowan, but didn't find anything useful. Deciding that Dark magic would probably not help with the Star Shower Spell, they went to Flitwick with Bill and Snape with Merula, and from Snape they learned the incantation they had been using, Stella Corusco, was wrong and would only make the stars shimmer instead of shower. After falling victim to Jacob's sibling's prank while bathing, Charlie decided to take showers more often, so Jacob's sibling asked him to describe showers to them, during which he mentioned the word "cascade". They reflected on it and eventually came up with Stella Cascadia which turned out to be the correct incantation.[119]
Although the spell is ready, they still needed something that would get everyone outside to see it in action. In Hog's Head Inn, Bilton Bilmes suggested a banned prank, which sounded like something Jae could get. Jae thought of the jinxed version of Ever-Bashing Boomerangs which would whiz super fast, but only Mundungus Fletcher had it. They met Fletcher in Three Broomsticks Inn, and he asked them to duel a dark wizard who, according to him, had cheated him. They met the dark wizard in Knockturn Alley, who started duelling them instantly. After the duel, he threatened to crush Fletcher if he stole from him again. Fletcher then sent them the jinxed Ever-Bashing Boomerangs as promised.[120]
Taking O.W.L.s
"Engorgio!"
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, should be expanded. Please help the Harry Potter Wiki by expanding this article to give more complete coverage of its subject.
Jacob's sibling took O.W.L.s.[89]
Releasing ultimate chaos
During a Care of Magical Creatures class, Jacob's sibling and their friends brainstormed ideas, and Liz came up with the Troll. To train for subduing a Troll, Jacob's sibling duelled Diego and visited Hagrid to learn more about Trolls. After learning that any meat would lure Trolls, they went down to the Kitchens and distracted Pitts with a better work ethic while Liz raided the food stores. They also convinced a friend to duel the Troll together and made their outfit more "chaotic".[121]
Jacob's sibling and their friend subduing the Troll
With everything prepared, Jacob's sibling, Bill and Charlie went to the Prefects' Bathroom and invited Peeves to witness the mischief masterpiece. Jacob's sibling, Tulip, Tonks and Jae released the enchanted Ever-Bashing Boomerangs in the Great Hall, and they started to fly everywhere instead of flying back to them as expected. The Boomerangs drove nearly everyone out of the Hall before Jacob's sibling used the Freezing Charm to stop them flying. Just then, they heard screams from the Training Grounds caused by the Troll, so they quickly arrived and subdued it while Peeves watched. Hagrid then came, disappointed by them, and decided to take care of the Troll.[122]
Jacob's sibling then cast the Star Shower Spell with Badeea in the Courtyard, which caused a real Star Shower during which meteorites bashed towards the ground. Peeves was satisfied and told them the vault portrait was in his room, which they entered and got the portrait. In the Kitchens, after Jae suggested showing it to Rakepick, Filch arrived and questioned them about the banned Boomerangs. Before their conversation ended, Pitts ordered Filch to leave for bringing Mrs Norris to the Kitchens. He later explained that he did this because Dumbledore asked him to take care of Jacob's sibling, and that he wanted to see them free Beatrice because of his gratefulness towards Helga Hufflepuff for letting house-elves work in the Kitchens, before announcing their detention was over, but Jae's was not. He then gave Jacob's sibling a piece of meat as a farewell gift.[122]
Preparing for the Buried Vault
Jacob's sibling presented the vault portrait to Rakepick who immediately told them they would be facing a dragon according to nothing, and took it away. They talked to Charlie, Professor Binns and Hagrid and learned some information about how to defend against dragons. Rakepick then called them in with Merula and Bill and taught them the Conjunctivitis Curse. They visited Kettleburn too, who had seen dragons up close.[123]
Merula invited Jacob's sibling to the Hog's Head Inn and brought a notebook to ask them about the Cursed Vaults. After some discussion, Jacob's sibling pitched a training plan for her and she agreed to carry on with it. They first met in the Cursed Corridor to search for a potential hidden entrance to no avail. They then decided to bring Diego and head to the Forest Grove to duel Torvus, who by then had already been accepted back to the Centaur Camp. Merula didn't win against Torvus, so he suggested Jacob's sibling and Merula team up against him. Merula wasn't ready to do this, so they headed back to Hogwarts and engaged in a spellcasting competition. Bill, as the judge, declared both of them as winners to Merula's disappointment.[124]
Merula borrowed the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom from Rakepick and attempted to teach Jacob's sibling the Killing Curse. They then brought the subject of Rakepick trying to teach them the Cruciatus Curse up, about which Merula insisted them talk more. During the conversation, Merula said her parents had taught her the Killing Curse before they'd gone to Azkaban. She also tried demonstrating Fiendfyre, but the spell went wrong and they couldn't turn it down. Fortunately, Rakepick arrived and extinguished the fire. At lunch, Merula told Jacob's sibling how she had discovered her parents had been Death Eaters and she was now looked after by her aunt during holidays.[124]
Jacob's sibling convinced a friend to go into the Buried Vault with them in Hog's Head, but as soon as they left, Ben came up and volunteered to do the same. Rakepick arranged a private lecture on Portkeys for Jacob's sibling, Bill, Merula and Ben (who would all be entering the Vault) and explained that the vault portrait should be a Portkey that would travel that night. They then deducted that the Vault had no entrance due to the designed way of entering, and soon Ben realised there could have no exit too. Rakepick later spoke with Jacob's sibling, telling them that they should take the lead should she die.[125]
Entering the Buried Vault
Merula, Bill, Rakepick, Jacob's sibling and their friend (possibly Charlie or Penny) waited for Ben on the Training Grounds, who, upon arrival, said he had been writing an important letter to an important wizard. After some preparation, they grasped the vault portrait together and was transported to the room connecting to the Buried Vault.[18]
The Hungarian Horntail in the Buried Vault
It appeared to be a deserted underground room with furniture and a massive portrait wall. Broken shackles and blood indicated there had been a dragon at some point, but now none was to be seen. They searched the Vault and when Jacob's sibling wanted to try opening a door on the portrait wall, Rakepick refused to let them, so their friend went up and used the Unlocking Charm, but it didn't work. Ben simply knocked on the door and a Hungarian Horntail appeared and stepped out of the portraits. The Vault started to collapse, and while Rakepick cast the Slowing Charm on the falling rocks, Jacob's sibling used the Conjunctivitis Curse on the Horntail, thwarting several of its attempts to attack and leading to their victory.[18]
Patricia Rakepick turning on Jacob's sibling and their friends
The door on the portraits still wouldn't open, and Jacob's sibling was used Legilimency by, according to Rakepick, the door. They tried to do the same to the door and successfully opened it. Suddenly, Rakepick knocked them down and said she had once attempted to enter the Vault with Jacob and Peter Pettigrew, who had fled out of the Vault with the portrait after seeing the Horntail, leaving her and Jacob to die. It turned out that she was only using Jacob's sibling for the Vault (because only Legilimens could open the door) and the rest of the students for dragon bait. The portrait curse hadn't been broken, Jacob had been trapped in a portrait that was beyond the door, and Rakepick had been transported to the Forbidden Forest when she had tried to acquire the treasure inside the centre column of the Vault.[18]
Merula attempted to stop Rakepick from killing all of them, but Rakepick used the Cruciatus Curse on her in advance. Jacob's sibling and their friends cast several spells, but were all deflected by the Shield Charm. Rakepick said she was under orders (from R) to kill one of Jacob's sibling's friends, but before she had her way, Jacob's sibling thought of the Garrotting Gas and released it, suffocating Rakepick and making her Disapparate.[18]
Jacob's sibling opening the centre column in the Vault
They went into the Vault and found Jacob in a portrait, who asked them to touch the centre column. After Jacob was released, they had a brief reunion and Jacob's sibling told him how they had come. Upon hearing Rakepick had been here, Jacob wanted to stop her and Disapparated too. Jacob's sibling opened the column and found a Merperson Trident and a portrait of Hogwarts, which was also a Portkey and transported them out of the Vault.[18]
Returning to Hogwarts
Jacob's sibling and their friends landed in the Great Hall, where they spent some time with Merula before she was sent to the Hospital Wing while others called the professors. During this time, Ben seemed too shocked to behave normally. Jacob's sibling later had a conversation with Dumbledore about Jacob and visited Beatrice and Merula.[126]
Before Jacob's sibling and Merula sorted out where their relationship was going, Ben alerted them that Sickleworth had been missing. They went to Hagrid and Kettleburn for help, who gathered a lot of Crups and Puffskeins to cheer them up, and even to Red Cap's Hole, where they met the Red Cap (who was struck down by Ben with the Knockback Jinx) and found Sickleworth with a Coral Key. However, he escaped again when they were in Hog's Head, but they found him soon enough. Ben later confessed the impact of the latest incident on him and his decision of turning into a new person.[127]
At the end of the school year, Jacob's sibling and Charlie planned a surprise party at the Three Broomsticks Inn for Bill who was about to graduate. During the party, Alastor Moody Apparated in who said to Jacob's sibling they had much to talk about, and Disapparated with them immediately. For the next hours, they were told some secrets which would change everything.[128]
Sixth year
During the 1989–1990 school year, their sixth year, Jacob's sibling proceeded to take N.E.W.T.-level Transfiguration,[129] Charms,[130] Divination,[131] Herbology,[132] History of Magic,[133] Potions,[134] Care of Magical Creatures,[135] Defence Against the Dark Arts,[136] and Astronomy.[137]
The school year's start
At the start of the 1989–1990 school year Start-of-Term Feast, Dumbledore delivered a speech as usual urging students to focus on their studies. Jacob's sibling didn't see Merula, Ben and Beatrice at the Feast. Alastor Moody then met them in the Hog's Head Inn, retold the persues of R, and said he would keep them updated with his findings and teach them to protect them and their friends.[138]
They learned from Penny that Beatrice had estranged her over the summer and her appearance was barely recognisable. They went to the Courtyard and saw Beatrice hanging out with Ismelda, having adopted the same hair-over-one-eye appearance. They tried talking to them but couldn't get them to trust them, so they went to Barnaby for help and only received the advice of "spending more time with Beatrice".[131]
Before they had time to talk to Beatrice, however, Beatrice and Snape had found a Petrified student, presumably by a statue curse. Later, Jacob's sibling took their first Divination class. Before the class ended, Professor Trelawney predicted something about them that was mostly ominous.[131]
Deciphering the prophecy
Charlie and Percy decided to help Jacob's sibling decipher the prophecy, and when Percy mentioned one had to be as skilled at Divination as a Centaur to interpret it correctly, Jacob's sibling thought of Torvus and consulted him, but he didn't make out anything either. It was possible for Jacob's sibling to meet other Centaurs, but in order to do so, they must prepare some offerings to be allowed in the Centaur Camp. So they gathered some herbs from Professor Sprout, some rock cakes from Hagrid and a historical star chart from Badeea.[139]
Having gained these items, Jacob's sibling was allowed in the Centaur Camp by Firenze, who agreed to uncover the meaning of the prophecy, but would have to take some time to interact with the heavens to do so. In the Artefact Room, after Jacob's sibling listened to an argument between Penny and Beatrice, they noticed a skull was missing and suspected Ben who had claimed to steal and trade it. They went to Knockturn Alley and asked Ben about the skull, but Ben was instead searching for answers about Rakepick and the final Cursed Vault. Ben confronted another wizard who revealed himself to be Mundungus Fletcher. He told them he had spotted the white-robed wizard who had attacked him again and had been laying low to prevent him from knowing his whereabouts. Later, Jacob's sibling discussed recent matters with Dumbledore, and when they mentioned the white-robed wizard, Dumbledore was reminded of the Mahoutokoro School of Magic, from where students would be expelled with their robes turning white if they broke the Japanese wizard's code or practised Dark Magic.[140]
Bill returned
Jacob's sibling was surprised to hear Bill Weasley returning to Hogwarts. After they greeted him in the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom, he said he had come to tutor them and their friends since this year's DADA professor was particularly useless. For their first lesson, they learned the Cursed Barrier Spell, but modified so that anyone with the Dark Mark was prevented from entering. Later, they found Fred and George Weasley in Red Cap's Hole who claimed to have followed a wizard here that looked like Jacob.[141]
A curse-breaking mission
"Engorgio!"
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, should be expanded. Please help the Harry Potter Wiki by expanding this article to give more complete coverage of its subject.
Jacob's sibling and their friends helped Bill retrieve Urgruff's egg from the Romanian Dragon Sanctuary.[142]
Finding Jacob
They confirmed from Madam Pince that the wizard had indeed been Jacob, who in fact had been in the Library rummaging through books, but couldn't find the books he wanted. They then went to Flourish and Blotts and talked to Madam Villanelle, who told them Jacob had looked for books on Mahoutokoro School of Magic. They thought Jacob might have left a secret message again, but none was found. They encountered Merula in Knockturn Alley who was still planning to kill Rakepick, and Jacob Apparated to their side seconds later, who said an assassin was after both them and Merula. They wanted to know more about Jacob's target and motivation, but he still didn't have much time and left after a quick practise duel.[143]
Tutoring Levi Kidd
"Engorgio!"
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, should be expanded. Please help the Harry Potter Wiki by expanding this article to give more complete coverage of its subject.
Jacob's sibling accompanied and tutored Wilfred Levi Kidd on his first curse-breaking mission.[144]
Looking for an owl
Jacob's sibling met Cedric Diggory who just started school, and when they were talking, Jacob's sibling saw Sickleworth running by carrying a white feather in his mouth. They picked up Beatrice while following his trace and tracked all the way down to the Transfiguration Classroom, but didn't find Sickleworth. Jacob's sibling thought Rakepick (whom Sickleworth might have been following) could have been investigating the statue curse and went to the Hospital Wing where all Petrified students were resting. They caught a glimpse of Sickleworth there, and followed him to Jacob's room and met Jacob, who believed the feather was a Transfigured quill. Jacob's sibling Untransfigured it into a note and discovered it to be for themselves, warning they "owed" a friend's life. After Jacob declined to let them search for Rakepick with him for their safety, they decided to investigate the owl from whom the feather had been taken.[145]
They went up to the Owlery and searched for the owl with Talbott who happened to be there, but failed. However, Talbott mentioned him seeing a white owl flying over the Forest Grove at some point, and that was where Jacob's sibling later saw the owl with Liz, Chiara and Borf. Unfortunately, they scared away the owl, who had been given the name Artemis by Liz. They didn't find the owl on the Hogsmeade station platform, which was a shady spot that owls preferred, and went to take a break in Zonko's with Tonks, but saw rogue Fanged Frisbees flying around with no customers. They helped Bilton blasting them out of the way, and Bilton suggested looking in Hog's Head, which they did, and found out from Aberforth that Rakepick had just been there and then gone to Knockturn Alley.[146]
Searching for dark artefacts
Jacob's sibling arrived at Knockturn Alley and saw Ben still interrogating dark wizards and witches. They encountered a witch who knew about the white-robed wizard, and Jacob's sibling became suspicious and used the Revelio Charm to reveal Mundungus Fletcher. He said he had seen Rakepick going to collect dark artefacts left behind with Artemis, which belonged to her associates. Jacob's sibling went search for dark artefacts in the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom, but the artefacts there weren't Rakepick's. Filch told them they were in the professors' hands, and knowing Snape had a personal interest on Rakepick, they asked him about them and learned that Rakepick had cursed the artefacts with unfamiliar Dark Magic that could only be broken by Dumbledore. It turned out that Dumbledore had stored the artefacts at the Ministry of Magic, and Tulip happened to know that Chester Davies, a former Ravenclaw Prefect, was working for the Ministry.[147]
In Flourish and Blotts, Jacob's sibling discussed the matter with Chester. Chester thought the artefacts were stored in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, but was reluctant to sneak them in. Then he revealed that he himself had sneaked in with an invisibility cloak, which got Jacob's sibling to ask Jae if he could get one. Jae knew a person who might have one, but due to their unfriendly history, they had to gather a few gifts for him. They retrieved a Remembrall from Hog's Head and got some Fireproof Socks from Andre before meeting their dealer, Alistair Fidgen. Alistair didn't forgive Jae for selling him fake love potions, and Jacob's sibling had to duel him before he hurt Jae more. After the duel, he seemed appeased, but still wanted them to give him a real love potion before he could hand over the invisibility cloak.[148]
Jacob's sibling gathered some rose thorns from the Herbology Classroom, peppermint from the Kitchens, powdered moonstone and pearl dust from a witch in Hogsmeade station to help Penny brew a love potion.[149] They then successfully traded the potion for an invisibility cloak, and when Alistair heard them talking about breaking into the Ministry, he suggested using the cloak on easier targets first. So they first went to the Transfiguration Classroom to eavesdrop on McGonagall and Flitwick and heard them talking about a dangerous wizard from Mahoutokoro and an exchange programme with Castelobruxo. At the Care of Magical Creatures grounds, they heard Hagrid and Kettleburn discussing overly-aggressive Grindylows in the Black Lake. They also spied on Binns and Pince considering continuing the research about the history of Merpeople they had agreed to do for Rakepick before she had taken flight. For the last practice, they eavesdropped in Hog's Head, but Moody Apparated in, located them using his magical eye, and told them there was trouble on the Training Grounds.[150]
Gathering allies
The trouble turned out to simply be a test of Jacob's sibling's duelling skills. After a duel, Moody alerted them that R had former Death Eaters in its ranks and a dark wizard had escaped going to Azkaban. When Jacob's sibling hurried to Divination class, Professor Trelawney Saw a dark wizard had been sighted nearby and instructed students to scrutinise Rita Skeeter's story about it on the Daily Prophet. Jacob's sibling sensed the dark wizard must have been near Hogwarts to be after them, so they thought of leaving Hogwarts, but the idea was eventually abandoned after they talked to their friends. After a brief skirmish between Charlie, who felt a bit at loss due to his dangerous adventures with Jacob's sibling, and Ben, who wanted to stop Charlie from attacking them more, Ben went with Jacob's sibling to the Spider's Lair to prove his abilities by showing them how he had taunted and attacked the Acromantula there (possibly the one guarding the Forest Vault). The Acromantula was immediately angered, and Jacob's sibling duelled it in time to prevent it from hurting Ben.[151]
Jacob's sibling, Penny and Cedric observing the Petrified Madam Pomfrey
Jacob's sibling thought Ben was too over-confident, but Ben didn't think there was such a thing, and insisted them meet Cedric again,[151] who was apparently not concerned about Ben being who he was. Then Cedric and Jacob's sibling went to the Hospital Wing to help Madam Pomfrey with Petrified students while talking to each other, but before Jacob's sibling could recruit Penny and brew some Pepperup Potion, they had a conversation with the Weasley brothers and learned that Fred and George had pulled off a prank again and Scabbers had been missing, but nothing the Weasleys themselves couldn't handle. They successfully brewed the potion with Penny, but before they left the Potions Classroom, Snape arrived and told them there were bigger problems, which was that Madam Pomfrey herself had been Petrified.[152]
Investigating the Black Lake
Soon, Dumbledore gathered all students in the Great Hall and gave some new rules in light of recent events, including staying close to the castle. Jacob's sibling followed this rule and researched the possible location of the final Cursed Vault in the Library with Cedric, eventually deciding the Vault was close to or inside the Black Lake. Naturally, to investigate the Lake meant sneaking out of the castle, which they did with Beatrice (who threatened to tell Dumbledore their plan) and the invisibility cloak, but didn't find any clues. Just as they were about to return to the castle, the white-robed wizard appeared, instantly hit Jacob's sibling with the Banishing Charm and left.[153]
Now heavily injured, Jacob's sibling turned to Chiara for help to heal the wounds. It turned out that Dumbledore knew what had happened at the lakeshore and gave Jacob's sibling and Beatrice detention. After the detention was over, Talbott met Jacob's sibling in the Owlery and told them he had found the white owl, but scared it away after she dropped the letters she was clutching, one of which was written in Japanese. They translated it in the Library and found it describing white quills hidden at the Black Lake.[154]
They went back to the lakeshore to search and found a white quill, which they Untransfigured to reveal a message sent by R addressed to the white-robed wizard, warning him the Ministry had authorised Dementors for his arrest. Jacob's sibling immediately warned Dumbledore, who held another emergency meeting in the Great Hall informing students Aurors were on their way. When Moody arrived, he told them Jacob had been at the lakeshore too when the ambush occurred, and it had been he who stopped the wizard from continuing to attack them. They wondered whether Jacob was still at Hogwarts, so they searched Jacob's room with Ben, but instead found a black quill, which, upon Untransfiguration, revealed another note written to Jacob, asking him to meet the sender in the Forest Grove.[155]
Battling in the Forest Grove
Jacob's sibling then joined up with Ben to go together into the Forest Grove to intercept the meeting. Ben recruited Merula to join them, which was at first not accepted by Jacob's sibling, but they were eventually convinced to take her. Before the departure, they also learned Flipendo Maxima from Badeea. The three went into the Forbidden Forest, heading to the Forest Grove. Unbeknownst to them however, they were being followed from a close distance behind them by Rowan. Eventually they reached the Forest Grove, and began to search for clues.[156]
The search led them to the discovery of an Opal Necklace belonging to Rakepick. As they were discussing the discovery, a swarm of Dementors showed up and circled the group. The group then began casting the Patronus Charm to protect themselves, however they were unsuccessful as they were overwhelmed with the sheer number of present Dementors.[156]
Rowan's death at the hands of Rakepick
Rakepick then Apparated into the vicinity and cast a powerful Patronus Charm, warding off all of the Dementors. She then engaged in a duel with the students, which was watched by Rowan. Eventually, Jacob's sibling and Merula were defeated, with only Ben still fighting. Rakepick deflected most of his attacks before Ben cast Flipendo Maxima at her, stating that it would teach her a lesson. She then told him that she would teach him a lesson for him to take to his grave, and subsequently cast a Killing Curse at Ben, intending to kill him. However, Rowan, who had been watching the entire duel from a close distance, sacrificed their life by jumping in front of Ben, ending their life and saving that of their friends.[156]
Forming the Circle of Khanna
Hogwarts students and staff raise their wand as a tribute to Rowan
Rowan's death struck the entirety of Hogwarts as an extremely painful event and their death was mourned by all of their friends, who found it difficult to come to terms with their tragic loss. In particular to suffer were Jacob's sibling, Ben, and Merula, all of whom had watched them die. A memorial service took place in the Great Hall, where Professor Dumbledore gave a brief eulogy of Rowan's life, aspirations and sacrifice before leading the students and staff in raising their wands as a tribute to Rowan.[157]
Jacob's sibling and their friends gathered in their common rooms, and the Heads of House announced the ban of leaving the castle had been lifted because the white-robed wizard was off Hogwarts grounds. They went for a drink in the Three Broomsticks Inn and recollected memories about Rowan with everybody there.[157]
Jacob's sibling, Ben and Merula starting the Circle of Khanna
Rowan's murder prompted a vengeful Jacob's sibling, Merula and Ben to form their own secret organisation to combat the malevolent R and get revenge on Rakepick for what she had done.[157] They gathered some of their friends in the Hog's Head Inn and told them about R, the threat bigger than Rakepick. The organisation was named Circle of Khanna in memory of Rowan with Jacob's sibling taking up the role of leader.[17]
For the first tasks, the members split into smaller groups based on their abilities and interests. Jacob's sibling was surprised to find Beatrice in the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom since the Circle was supposed to be a secret. Beatrice expressed interest in joining the Circle, which Jacob's sibling and Penny didn't prevent. What's more, Fred and George were seen practising spells in the Transfiguration Classroom and clearly had a interest in the Circle too. Jacob's sibling also visited the group at the Care of Magical Creatures grounds where Barnaby, Liz and Charlie were training Murtlaps and helped them search for a Murtlap, Hester. Badeea and Talbott, on the other hand, were working on a map of the Great Lake in the Library and discussed it with Jacob's sibling. Ben also invited Cedric to join the Circle.[17]
Still recovering from Rowan's death, Jacob's sibling had heart-to-heart conversations respectively with Dumbledore and Moody, and while Dumbledore wanted them to focus on grieving and healing, Moody liked the idea of fighting a secret organisation with another secret organisation. Unfortunately, Cedric had broken his arm and was resting in the Hospital Wing, and Jacob's sibling visited him, helped treating other patients and invited Chiara to join the Circle of Khanna, but Chiara was reluctant to do so because of her werewolf identity. Jacob's sibling eventually convinced her to join.[158]
Meeting Alanza Alves
Jacob's sibling was called in Dumbledore's office and met Alanza Alves, an exchange student from Castelobruxo. Learning that Dumbledore wanted them to be a guide for Alanza, they started at the Training Grounds where Jacob's sibling planned to talk to Badeea and Talbott about the map of the Great Lake, and when Alanza thought the map was part of the tour, they showed it to her nevertheless, but decided to keep the Circle of Khanna a secret. However, Badeea let slip the name of the Circle, but Talbott made it up by saying it was a club, and when Alanza wanted to join, Jacob's sibling said it was better to experience classes first.[159]
They went to the Potions Classroom and heard Professor Snape, Madam Pince and Mr Filch talking about things missing around the school. They then introduced Alanza and the staff to each other, and when Alanza described the three of them as "grumpy" and Filch called for Mrs Norris to leave, she unexpectedly purred and courted him and Alanza to Jacob's sibling's surprise. After class, Merula talked to Jacob's sibling about making the Circle of Khanna the top priority and was noticed by Alanza again.[159]
Hagrid prepared several magical creatures in his garden as a "creature welcome", but unfortunately there were some conflicts among them due to the variety of their species. Jacob's sibling and Alanza calmed them down, during which Alanza showed great talent in dealing with creatures. While Alanza was talking to Hagrid, she mentioned the Circle of Khanna and that everyone was talking about it, making Hagrid feel both regretful (for not reaching out to Jacob's sibling sooner) and worried (that they might do something dangerous).[159]
Jacob's sibling intended to continue their talk with Merula, and when they entered the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom, they saw Beatrice and Ismelda brewing a potion with the exact ingredients that Snape had said to have been missing, along with the books about advanced potions from the Library. Alanza deduced the potion was Felix Felicis from the spells of it, and Jacob's sibling learned that it was Penny's idea to higher their luck in beating Rakepick. When they couldn't conceal the facts anymore, Jacob's sibling explained everything about Rowan and the Circle of Khanna to Alanza.[159]
Returning to the Forest Grove
After a brief conversation with Ben and Merula in Hog's Head, Jacob's sibling met Bill at Hogsmeade station who wanted to pay a visit to his younger brothers at school. They prepared his mother, Molly's home-made fudge in the Kitchens with Charlie and Jae and tricked Percy, Fred and George into coming to the Owlery to receive it. When the Weasley brothers were all feeling down, Jacob's sibling helped explain the good side of life at Hogwarts, and when Fred mentioned Circle of Khanna, Bill immediately guessed what it was and wanted to join. He later talked to Jacob's sibling, Ben and Merula in private and suggested working in an organised way by finding clues back at where Rowan died as a start.[160]
Before departure, Jacob's sibling spent a normal day at school. They had a lunch with Alanza and learned all about Castelobruxo, and while attending Divination class, Chiara reminded them this night would be especially dangerous to go to the Forbidden Forest due to a full moon. They also volunteered in the Hospital Wing due to two more Petrified students. In the Forbidden Forest, they encountered a werewolf and fought it, and when it was Stunned, Chiara in werewolf form hopped in and chased it away. Torvus then appeared and delivered a message from Firenze that he would tell them his findings about the prophecy if they studied the constellation Cetus.[161]
They attended Astronomy class and studied Cetus under Professor Sinistra's supervision, then went into the Centaur Camp and learned from Firenze that his interpretation was they would have to "face a difficult decision, a powerful adversary, and another loss" and that the future would take them beyond anything they had experienced in the past six years. They talked with Dumbledore privately and decided it was necessary to better understand Jacob.[137]
Becoming Head Boy or Girl
"Engorgio!"
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, should be expanded. Please help the Harry Potter Wiki by expanding this article to give more complete coverage of its subject.
Jacob's sibling received a surprise visit from Rowan, who guided them on their way of becoming Head Boy or Girl.[5]
Bonding with Jacob and Beatrice
So they invited Charlie to go to the Prefects' Bathroom to visit Duncan and learned he had used to have secret meetings with Jacob down in the boathouse, so they went there and found a black quill and Untransfigured it to reveal a letter written by Jacob that informed them to go to the lakeshore and cast Vermillious if they wanted to meet him.[162]
They went to the lakeshore and did so, and Jacob Apparated. He explained all about his motivations of teaming up with Rakepick and regrets towards his inability to stop her from hurting his sibling. Suddenly, Jacob spotted Beatrice floating on the Black Lake.[162] They rushed her to the Hospital Wing, and she remembered going to the lake because of her nightmares about the white-robed wizard and seeing giant tentacles (of a Giant Squid) before jumping in to do some reconnaissance. To help Beatrice understand the nightmares, Jacob's sibling took her to see Snape for guidance, who used Legilimency, "struggled to tell nightmare from reality", and advised her to stop repressing her trauma. They enjoyed a game of Gobstone and heard Sir Cadogan's compliments of her valour.[163]
Exploring the Whomping Willow
Jacob's sibling, Chiara and Talbott reading about Grindylows in Flourish and Blotts
Ready to move on and face the future, Jacob's sibling held a meeting with the members of the Circle of Khanna and considered several threats in the Black Lake: Grindylows, the Giant Squid, and Merpeople. They consulted Kettleburn and Hagrid, and read books about the Grindylows, but instead found a page about the Whomping Willow and a description that said it was a message exchange centre for a large dark organisation. Knowing Alanza was a natural with creatures, they asked her about the Willow but came down to talk about Alanza's school life instead. When they were finishing up, the Weird Sisters showed up. They had no choice but to ask Professor Sprout to review the Whomping Willow in Herbology class, who told them there was no way to get near the Willow.[164]
After class, Jacob's sibling was told Dumbledore discovered the Circle of Khanna. In his office, they saw Ben and Merula had been called up there too. They discussed possible consequences of their actions, but were surprised to find Dumbledore actually thinking it was a support group that focused on healing rather than vengeance. Later, they distracted Madam Pince and headed for the Restricted Section to research more about the Whomping Willow, and found Rowan's notes on the best woods for wands and broomsticks. It gave them motivation to head to the Whomping Willow, but first they called for Jacob and practised the Shield Charm, when Merula walked in and insisted an extra meeting of the Circle during which Jacob's sibling teach them the Charm. After an argument with the members that Merula picked for the meeting, Filch appeared and reported them to Dumbledore, who once again gave them detention.[165]
After detention, they went together to the Whomping Willow and found a black quill which Untransfigured to a message. Before they were able to read the whole message, the Willow attempted to stomp them, so they quickly fled, but didn't bring the message. They went for another try and got the message, and read that a meeting of a dark wizard society was soon to happen at Borgin and Burkes. They reviewed Concealment Charms with Flitwick and proper ways to disguise oneself with Tonks and Tulip, and scouted out Borgin and Burkes with Jae, when they spotted Alistair and met Moody.[166]
Infiltrating R's meeting
They had a talk with Moody, who thought they needed an advanced strategy, such as disguising themselves to become a different person. They convinced Penny to brew some Polyjuice Potion, and they went together to gather ingredients. In the Potions Classroom, Snape walked in and warned them about all the perils of the Polyjuice Potion, but didn't stop them from collecting ingredients.[167] They subsequently collected all ingredients from various places, including a strand of Rakepick's hair, and brewed the Polyjuice Potion with Penny, but since it needed a month to be finished, they thought of imitating Rakepick from the inside out to pass the time.[168] They played pretend with Bill, Merula, Fred and George and learned Rakepick's style with Alanza and Andre.[169] They recruited Tonks, Jae and Talbott and confirmed from Jacob that Rakepick herself would most probably not appear at the meeting.[170]
Rakepick striking down Jacob's sibling
When the Polyjuice Potion was ready and the time had come, Jacob's sibling put on Rakepick's outfit and transformed into her, while Tonks turned into a Dark Witch and Jae wore the invisibility cloak. They went to Borgin and Burkes and saw the white-robed wizard waiting outside with a Dark Witch. They was surprised that "Rakepick" showed up, but eventually made sense of it and talked to them about R's plans. From them, Jacob's sibling learned there was a secret agent (in other words, a mole) inside Hogwarts who was making progress with their plans, but before furthering their conversation, the real Rakepick Apparated and struck Jacob's sibling down, initiating a brief fight between Jacob's sibling's team, Moody, Jacob (who too Apparated) and Rakepick. Seeing as she was outnumbered, Rakepick Disapparated, and so did Jacob.[171]
Jacob's sibling was too focused to realise the others had bound the white-robed wizard with ropes. Moody and they brought him back to the boathouse and interrogated him, learning nothing but that R was planning to recruit Jacob's sibling and expecting them to be its next leader, so Moody Stunned him and planned to throw him in Azkaban. Jacob's sibling gathered the Circle of Khanna in Hog's Head and discussed who the mole might've been, and it came down to Hooch, Snape and Filch.[171]
Visiting the Merpeople
Jacob's sibling and Merula got Filch's attention by sticking a Blood Pop on Mrs Norris. Filch expressed affection for the school and the staff when talking to them, which diminished the possibility of him being the mole. Madam Hooch didn't sound like a person who would respect R as well and seemed to not have any idea as to what a student was trying to accomplish by dive-bombing the Black Lake. Jacob's sibling and Snape's conversation, however, was interrupted by Barnaby, who, along with many others, found another Petrified student. The situation showed them the search for the mole had to be put on hold and the focus should be breaking the statue curse.[172]
Jacob's sibling reviewed the Bubble-Head Charm with Barnaby and Ben to improve their ability to breath underwater.[172] After that, they decided to head into the Black Lake alone while Barnaby and Ben watched out for the mole. After sinking to the bottom surface, they saw a trident, encountered a hostile Merwoman and fought her, and before things got worse, exited the Lake. Wanting to learn more about how to soothe Merpeople, they interviewed Kettleburn and Hagrid with Liz, and also learned more in Flourish and Blotts, where Chiara found out the local Merpeople were fond of music.[173]
Weird Sisters concert at the Great Lake
Jacob's sibling immediately thought of the Weird Sisters when it came to music.[173] When talking to them, Jacob's sibling learned Filch had plucked Kirley's guitar and it was essential for a concert, so they went to his office and found it just before Filch came in. Under the pretence of wanting to write a song about Mrs Norris, they successfully took the guitar. After returning it, they did some planning and went to the Lake to do the concert. The Merwoman Jacob's sibling had fought and another Merperson surfaced from the water and listened in joy.[174]
When Jacob's sibling entered the Lake again, they apologised and explained their intentions to the Merwoman, and she led them to the Merpeople village. The Village was huge and there appeared to be a lost city nearby. After waiting for a while, the Merwoman introduced Jacob's sibling to the Merqueen. The Merpeople showed them a broken lyre, comb and necklace and wanted them to bring new versions of these items.[174]
Preparing for the Sunken Vault
Jacob's sibling picking a comb for the Merqueen
After a brief discussion with their friends, Jacob's sibling convinced Alanza to give them one of her treasured necklaces and asked Jae to acquire a lyre. Their search of combs with Charlie in the Prefects' Bathroom came down to a failure, but they spotted Dennis, which indicated Tulip was behind the missing combs. They found Tulip, Fred and George, who indeed snuck all the combs for a massive prank that turned everybody's hair into hideous colours, and after an explanation, Jacob's sibling managed to gain a good-looking comb.[175]
After a practice duel, Merula became more hostile than ever towards Jacob's sibling. Ben speculated it was just her letting her feelings out, and suggested reading some of Rowan's notes to remind themselves of their purpose.[176] Jae brought a lyre to Hog's Head, but its strings were broken. Knowing that Kirley could play string instruments, Jae brought it to him to fix it while Jacob's sibling and Merula considered who to bring to the Sunken Vault with them. Merula thought Ben was a good idea, and Ben immediately showed his willingness. They also recruited Barnaby to be their lookout for R, and Jacob to be with them in the adventure.[177]
Entering the Sunken Vault
The Merpeople cheering for Jacob's sibling's team's song
Jacob's sibling, Merula, Ben and Jacob went to the Merpeople village in the Black Lake and presented the lyre, the comb, and the necklace to the Merqueen. After approving of those, the Merqueen also asked them to sing a song. They picked a song that was famous among them and sang together, and when they finished, the Merqueen and the other Merpeople applauded. This winned the Merqueen's consent to guide them to the Sunken Vault.[19]
Jacob's sibling's team fighting Grindylows outside the fortress in which the Sunken Vault was located
She led them to the front of a stone fortress with no entrance where Jacob's sibling had spotted the trident on their previous visit. Knowing that the Sunken Vault must have been in there, they casted the Gouging Spell to make an opening, and a great many of angered Grindylows swarmed through. After the team defeated them, they entered the fortress and spotted the mouth of a statue of a Giant Squid what might be the way to the Vault. They casted some more spells to remove the rock in front of the Vault and entered.[19]
Jacob's sibling reliving their worst memories in the Sunken Vault
It was essentially no different than any other Vault, with a glowing centre column and no visible treasures. When Jacob's sibling touched the column, the surroundings blackened, and they were stuck in a loop in which they relived the worst of their memories, including Merula's hostility, the gruelling encounter with Rakepick in the Buried Vault, and Rowan's death. The real Merula dragged them out of the loop, and they found out the others had also experienced similarly.[19]
Jacob's sibling and Rakepick duelling
Realising the true purpose of the Cursed Vaults might not have been waiting for someone to come in, but keeping insidious curses from coming out instead, the team decided to reseal the Sunken Vault. At the moment, having bypassed Barnaby's sentry, Rakepick showed up and promptly struck down the other three. Jacob's sibling had a intense duel with Rakepick and ultimately defeated her, before resealing the Vault and returning to the castle with the others to report to Dumbledore.[19]
Throwing a party
Jacob's sibling recalled the experience with Dumbledore, who thought Hogwarts owed them a debt and considered them a hero. Jacob told them they got to be a normal student again, something which he couldn't get now. They met Moody too and thought they still hadn't gained much clues of R and its mole inside Hogwarts. Talbott discovered a letter to Jacob's sibling in the Owlery, and they discovered it was the letter Ben had written before they had entered the Buried Vault. In it, he had written about their friendship and expressed how much he had admired them. They then invited all their friends to Hog's Head and thanked every one of them.[178]
Having been reminded by Jacob and Moody that life at Hogwarts could be exciting and wonderful, Jacob's sibling decided to throw a party to celebrate. Alanza suggested they choose Three Broomsticks for the venue, but Madam Rosmerta didn't welcome the idea as her barmaid was ill in addition to all of the patrons, so Penny wanted to help her with her business, and they eventually acquired Rosmerta's consent. Jacob's sibling found Fred and George in Zonko's Joke Shop, who sneaked to Hogsmeade with the help of the Marauder's Map, and asked for pranking advices. They even invited the Weird Sisters to perform some music, and discovered they were writing a song about their heroic acts and needed more information of them, so they helped with the lyrics.[179]
Jacob's sibling enjoying the party with their friends
Jacob's sibling went to the party and saw Hagrid and Professors Dumbledore, McGonagall and Snape attending, who were all happy to see them returning to normal life. Alanza then revealed she would be staying at Hogwarts for the next school year. Jacob's sibling and their friends enjoyed the party with decorations, Butterbeer and music. Later, Jae told them he had gotten a message from Mundungus Fletcher.[179]
Finding out the mole
Jacob's sibling went to Diagon Alley with Jae and met Fletcher and Ollivander. Ollivander told them a young Dark Witch with dark clothes and wide-brimmed hat with feathers had recently come in to ask about the specifications of Jacob's sibling's wand and said something about a white-robed wizard. Then Madam Villanelle recalled the Dark Witch talking out loud about the wand and had almost knocked over a book display in Flourish and Blotts. She had also talked about books and subjects they and Jacob were interested in.[180]
Merula and the Dark Witch from Knockturn Alley (in a different look) having a secret meeting
Knowing who she might have been, Jacob's sibling went to Hog's Head and saw the Dark Witch they had seen multiple times in Knockturn Alley. They eavesdropped on her and found out she was about to meet someone, possibly the Hogwarts mole, so later on, they brought their invisibility cloak and went to Knockturn Alley, where they were shocked to see Merula come and say she was ready to join R. The Dark Witch transformed into a different look and Disapparated with her.[180]
Seventh year
The wandless duel
At the start of the 1990–1991 school year, Jacob's sibling reunited with their friends in the Great Hall. Before the Start-of-Term Feast, Professor Dumbledore announced that seventh-year students would have the opportunity to explore various wizarding professions off the school grounds.[181]
Jacob's sibling gathered the Circle of Khanna, but the others were more interested in feeling unburdened and leading a normal life. They then met Jacob in the Hog's Head Inn, but before they could speak, Alastor Moody sat down beside them. They then told the two about what they had seen at the end of the last school year, and expressed some negative feelings about it. Moody suggested talking to someone they didn't know at Hogwarts since their acquaintances weren't very supportive.[181]
Jacob's sibling went to History of Magic class, and Tulip introduced Corey Hayden to them, who were talking to a crowd about today's lesson on Emeric the Evil. After Corey's lecture, Jacob's sibling discussed Emeric the Evil further with them. Just then, Merula showed up.[181] Later, she spoke to them about her summer of spell-training and used the Knockback Jinx on them wandlessly. She then invited them to a wandless duel. Wanting to study about wandless magic, Jacob's sibling went to the Library but was forbidden to enter the Restricted Section where all the books about wandless magic resided. Corey came by, and after telling them the history of wandless magic, they used the Exploding Charm in the Library, giving Madam Pince reason to send them to the Kitchens for detention, where house-elves, users of wandless magic, work.[20]
Jacob's sibling losing a wandless duel to Merula Snyde
They tried to let Pitts teach them, but it didn't went good. They then summoned Jacob and learned more, but their Banishing Charm was still very feeble. The time of duelling Merula had come, and Jacob's sibling suffered a big loss. She decided to teach them wandless magic to bring them to the same skill level as her, and said just like each person's wand was different, wandless magic worked for every person differently too. Jacob's sibling then cast a mildly powerful Knockback Jinx when they were focusing on things that made them feel at home.[20]
Investigating with Corey
After Merula left, Corey revealed they knew something was off with Merula. They later explained that they came to the conclusion by observing Jacob's sibling's behaviour in their interactions with them and Merula. Corey decided they wanted to team up with Jacob's sibling in solving the mystery, so Jacob's sibling told them about Merula's resolve in joining R.[20]
Jacob's sibling attended Professor Arif Sikander's Muggle Studies class with Corey while spying on Merula. During the whole lesson, Merula was taking notes, but at the end turned it into a black quill that looked like R's, and secretly passed it to Ismelda. They followed Ismelda to the Owlery, and after she left, they searched for the quill with Talbott, Untransfigured it and read that there would be a meeting in the Artefact Room after supper.[182]
They put on their invisibility cloak and waited with Corey outside the room, while Corey told detective stories and analysed that the guilty wasn't necessarily the first suspect. They then saw Merula heading to the Artefact Room with a figure in a black cloak, but before they could get close enough, Filch stopped them and made them turn around. When Filch was finally gone, they headed to the Artefact Room and caught Merula and Badeea in it. They explained that Badeea was only Merula's Charms tutor and had been secretly helping her due to it being "humiliating". The next day, Jacob's sibling and Corey reviewed the information they had so far.[182]
Ministry assignments
Dumbledore gathered several students, including Jacob's sibling and assigned them a mission of visiting to the Ministry of Magic, specifically the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. After expanding their knowledge base of the Ministry by talking to Charlie, they acquired some Floo Powder from the professors. Meanwhile, Corey invited Beatrice to talk to Jacob's sibling about Merula, during which she said Merula had been going to the Whomping Willow and always came back in a bad mood. Before going to the Ministry, Moody caught Jacob's sibling in time and warned them of possible agents of R inside the Ministry and that he had his own contacts there.[183]
Jacob's sibling stopped by Eric Munch when Arthur and Bill Weasley passed by
Arriving at the Ministry, Jacob's sibling was checked by Eric Munch with a Probity Probe and dismissed when he heard they had no credentials. They explained themselves but it didn't help, and just as they were about to be forced to leave, they met Arthur and Bill Weasley, who vouched for them, gaining Jacob's sibling the consent to enter. Arthur then guided them to the All-Purpose Room where they met Amos Diggory, who was alone in the room, appeared to be amnesiac over recent events and rather grumpy. After giving some reminder to him, Jacob's sibling learned he was no longer in charge of the student programme and was asked to go to Office 34B.[184]
Jacob's sibling encountering Dolores Umbridge in Office 34B
They went to the office and found it was covered in pink and cat-related stuff with nobody in it. Dolores Umbridge then appeared and heckled them about their presence in her office. After Umbridge learned Jacob's sibling's name, she immediately turned friendly and thought they would like to meet Wilkie Twycross in the All-Purpose Room. Now the room was filled with people and Jacob's sibling met Twycross, who gave them a visitor badge as their credentials, taught the Rules of Conduct for Students Visiting the Ministry of Magic to them, and explained that Moody had requested that they go to the Auror Office along with another student, instead of the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office which was the choice under normal circumstances.[184]
Jacob's sibling went to the Auror Office and discovered the other student was Tonks. They practised duelling to burn off Tonks's extra energy, before Moody came in and told them to start their tasks.[184] They then went to an office to receive their first task, which was learning about Hogwarts as much as they could. After completing it by returning to Hogwarts and investigating, they went back to the Ministry to report to Moody that everything in Hogwarts was perfectly normal.[185]
The second task was about a rogue alchemist who claimed to have invented a panacea, causing boils on its victims. Jacob's sibling interviewed a witness who bought the dodgy panacea, tracked the alchemist with Tonks, researched, experimented with alchemy and discussed with Dumbledore about it. Later, Moody told them he had caught the alchemist thanks to their help, and the panacea had in fact been made from corn starch and lard.[186]
Enchanted windows mystery
Jacob's sibling, Ben and Reginald observing the hurricane windows
After helping Eric Munch registering wands, Jacob's sibling and Tonks went to see Arthur Weasley who taught them things about Portkeys to them in the Portkey Office. Due to malfunctioning enchanted windows which display a hurricane, Arthur could not continue his speech and tasked them to fix them. On the way to the Magical Maintenance Department, they met Ben, Barnaby, Charlie and Liz in front of the lifts, and Barnaby brought up his uncle Cecil who had helped the Magical Maintenance Department before. Jacob's sibling went with Barnaby to talk to him, but he demanded them to duel each other first to see if they had the potential to join the Werewolf Capture Unit. After the duel, they learnt that only the windows in the Portkey Office were acting strange, which had not been the case before in which all of the windows were broken. When passing by the All-Purpose Room, they saw the hurricane windows had spread to it as well, and everyone was not able to work. Reginald Cattermole, an employee from the Magical Maintenance Department, joined their conversation about it and said this window was the "master window" which controlled all the enchanted windows in the Ministry. After considering it for a while, Jacob's sibling and Ben thought the windows might have been cursed by a complicated spellwork.[187]
Jacob's sibling now called it the "enchanted windows mystery" and reported to Moody with Tonks, suspecting it might have been a work of R, though without solid evidence. Moody encouraged them to use their curse-breaking and detective skills to find out the truth, so they talked to Munch and read his documents, during which they noticed Reg had come in twice this morning without Munch having seen him leaving in-between. Reg himself denied this immediately and three others confirmed his continuous presence. However, Jacob's sibling found his wand under a desk, one which Mafalda Hopkirk usually sat instead of him. Connecting the dots, Jacob's sibling deduced a fake Reg may have stolen the real Reg's wand to curse the enchanted windows and blame Reg.[188]
Jacob's sibling and Ben releasing Tonks from a locked chest
They discussed this with Ben and landed their guesses on the intruder either taking Polyjuice Potion or being a Metamorphmagus. Just then, Tonks left in a rush to supposedly see Wilkie Twycross, and Jacob's sibling and Ben discovered a bouncing locked chest. They unlocked the chest and saw another Tonks in it, then realised the Tonks they had been working with was an imposter, so they tried but failed to chase them down. The last memory that Tonks had was her stopping in the Auror Office for her quill and notepad when heading to the Magical Maintenance Department, and a man like a weasel (probably the fake Reg before becoming Tonks) coming in after her. They thought since they had been discovered while assuming both identities, they were now disguising as someone else. An Arthur Weasley approached them, and after he was confirmed to be really him, he told them a suspicious Amos Diggory had left the Portkey Office shortly before he had arrived and seen the windows, displaying the same rudeness and amnesia that Jacob's sibling themselves had seen when talking to him.[188]
Amos came into the All-Purpose Room, in which he usually rested around that time, shortly after them and acted like the real Amos. When he heard there may have been an imposter, he questioned Jacob's sibling instead about his son Cedric to confirm their identity. Afterwards, when Jacob's sibling asked whether he had been in the Portkey Office, he said he had been helping the Pest Advisory Board with one of their albino bloodhounds instead, and that this was the first time he talked to them this day. This could mean nothing besides the imposter having been disguised as Amos.[188]
In order to further investigate the enchanted windows curse, Jacob's sibling returned to Hogwarts and consulted Professor Flitwick. They also brought Reg's wand for him to examine. Meanwhile, they reunited with Corey and were informed that Merula had been visiting the Whomping Willow increasingly. When Jacob's sibling told Corey about the Metamorphmagus, Corey suspected the Dark Witch from Knockturn Alley due to her previous transformation. Then, Merula showed up and called Jacob's sibling a "Janitor" for the maintenance work she thought they had been doing. Jacob's sibling wondered whether someone at the Ministry told her that, but Merula refused to divulge what she had been up to.[189]
Jacob's sibling received Flitwick's owl and visited him again, who told them the curse had been the Atmospheric Charm. They then reviewed Meteolojinx Recanto which should act as a counter-spell. Going back to the Ministry, they successfully restored the windows using the spell. Alastor Moody also asked to see them and said the ensuing chaos had allowed someone to slip in unseen and steal a Portkey in the form of a sock.[189]
Mysterious creature attack
Jacob's sibling and friends uniting in the Beast Division
Jacob's sibling and Tonks gave Moody a formal debrief and received a visit from Wilkie Twycross, who announced that Jacob's sibling would be going to the Beast Division in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures at Amos Diggory's invitation. There, they met Barnaby, Charlie and Liz who were assigned to the same division, and listened to Amos's lecture about it. He asked Jacob's sibling and Liz to investigate an odd creature sighting in Hogsmeade.[190]
Jacob's sibling questioning Dolores Umbridge about the creature attack
They went to the Hogsmeade station platform and saw Dolores Umbridge who looked like injured with a claw mark and said to have been attacked by an unknown creature on her way to Madam Puddifoot's but not remember anything except the falling. When Jacob's sibling speculated she might have been attacked by a big cat, she turned angry and refused help from a "child". Then, Madam Puddifoot came in and informed them that a Hogwarts student had been found near Zonko's with large scratches earlier that day and too couldn't have seemed to recall how exactly she had gotten there.[190]
Jacob's sibling and Liz visiting Ismelda in the Hospital Wing
They rushed to the Hospital Wing and found out the student to be Ismelda, who bore a similar mark. She recounted heading to the Three Broomsticks and seeing some big yellow eyes, but before Jacob's sibling could ask for more, Merula, who was keeping Ismelda company, said she needed to rest and made them leave. After researching in the Library, Jacob's sibling thought it might've been a Wampus cat which was native to North America and had yellow eyes which had powers of hypnosis and legilimency. After Liz left to read some more, Corey caught Jacob's sibling up with her recent investigations.[190]
Jacob's sibling clashing with Tim
Returning to the Ministry, Jacob's sibling gave their report to Amos, who believed the situation was worth looking further into. He instructed them and Charlie, who returned from Niffler-related tasks, to study the Ministry accident reports, in which they saw a lot of mentions of Professor Kettleburn, so they consulted him and got his suggestion of using a Niffler as bait after practising catching Kneazles as a warm-up. After they formed their plan with Liz, Charlie placed a Golden Snitch in Hagrid's Garden and it naturally attracted a Niffler. Jacob's sibling attempted to hit it with the Stunning Spell, but it jumped out of the way, causing them some troubles to capture it. After it was successfully Stunned, they brought it to Hogsmeade station and it lured out the Wampus cat. Jacob's sibling had a brief fight with him, and after he knocked their wand out of their hand, they Stunned him wandlessly. When they came close to secure him, they noticed what looked like the sock Portkey near him. Liz also named him Tim.[191]
Jacob's sibling and Liz delivering Tim to Kettleburn
Afterwards, Jacob's sibling talked to Moody about this assignment and the sock, which Moody confirmed was the missing Portkey and thought might have been another distraction. He proposed that Jacob's sibling focus on Merula and his assignments while he work on R. Jacob's sibling then headed to the Department of Magical Creature Regulation and celebrated with their friends and Amos and delivered Tim to Professor Kettleburn who had decided to care for him. They then talked with Merula, during which they voiced their suspicion of her, in particular, her constant change of tone and manners. Merula responded by saying she was still trying to figure out what kind of person she wanted to be. Before the conversation could reach a natural ending, Ben picked up Jacob's sibling and went see Twycross, who informed them of their new positions.[192]
Memory loss catastrophe
Xeep Meet-and-Greet
Moody greeted Jacob's sibling and Ben at the Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes while the Head of Department was unavailable, and intended them to interview Garrick Ollivander about a backfired wand as the first task. Ollivander originally acknowledged the existence of a misfiring wand, but later claimed to not remember such wand at all, and wanted to leave and meet Zenith Xeep, a renowned opera diva in the wizarding world, so Jacob's sibling offered to come with him. They met Zenith and Rita Skeeter in the Leaky Cauldron and heard about Zenith's new beauty-and-lifestyle business, Xeep, and its product, Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, which Ollivander had been using for a week and spoke highly of. Jacob's sibling was gifted a bottle of it, and then returned to Ollivanders with Ben.[193]
Jacob's sibling and Ben with the fake wand
Ollivander remembered having the wand again, and they found a suspicious wand, which he determined to be a fake, leading them to believe the real one had been stolen. He recalled having amnesiac symptoms for a week and found Madam Villanelle to have visited his shop during this time according to his ledger. When they visited her, she was oblivious of her visit as well, but was immediately reminded of the backfired wand when Jacob's sibling mentioned it. Both Ollivander and Villanelle had been using Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution when their memory problems occurred, which they doubted was a coincidence.[193]
Back at the Ministry, Moody informed Jacob's sibling and Ben Obliviators had been sent to restore Ollivander and Villanelle's memories (but they were not successful), and that the Ministry had been confiscating Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, which might've been the reason Zenith was hiding. Moody tasked them to restore the two's memories themselves, and since Jacob's sibling still had a vial of the Solution with them, they found Penny, and then Professor Snape, and had them examine it. Snape identified the Forgetfulness Potion to be a base of this complex Solution and was willing to brew a counter-serum for them. Meanwhile, Jacob's sibling practised wandless magic with Ben and went through an interview with Rita, who demanded them find out what the Ministry was planning by breaking into Umbridge's office before she could tell them where Zenith was.[194]
Dungbomb setting off in Office 34B
Jacob's sibling and Ben talked about setting up distractions for Umbridge, and Ben came up with the idea of pretending to do office checks as an assignment of the Magical Maintenance Department. Jacob's sibling asked Tulip to meet in Zonko's and she helped them choose a Dungbomb. When they went to Office 34B and met Umbridge, she wanted to have tea with them right away, and when they prepared to place the Dungbomb, she noticed, but they explained it away. When she pressed them about the treasures in the final Cursed Vault, the Dungbomb set off and Umbridge blamed Ludo Bagman, leaving the room. Jacob's sibling searched the office and found a paper about a Wizengamot trial.
Jacob's sibling duelling Zenith Xeep
They talked to Rita and she told them to find Zenith in Knockturn Alley, where they then saw Zenith meeting with a Dark Witch, originally disguised as Wilkie Twycross. Ben couldn't wait and jumped out when Zenith was about to hand over the wand she had stolen, and the Dark Witch used the Stunning Spell on him. Jacob's sibling came out too, the Dark Witch Disapparated, and they duelled Zenith. After they won, Zenith drank a bottle of Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, making herself forget what had happened, thus preventing Jacob's sibling from knowing. However, she also forgot her name.[195]
Victims drinking the counter-serum
Back at the Ministry, Moody questioned Jacob's sibling about disobeying his order of not pursuing this case before consulting with him, and then asked them about their confrontation with Zenith. They discussed the Dark Witch, who Moody believed was a high-ranking member of R. Jacob's sibling then checked in with Professor Snape and Penny and helped them finish brewing the counter-serum. They went to Ollivanders and offered the victims the counter-serum, which seemed to have taken effect.[196]
Jacob's sibling speaking with Cornelius Fudge
Jacob's sibling met with Corey in Three Broomsticks and talked about the phoenix feather wand and Merula. Corey told them about the note (transfigured as a quill) she had intercepted from Merula, which said that she wouldn't put her friends in danger again. Alastor Moody then showed up and brought Jacob's sibling to see Cornelius Fudge, who spoke to them about the upcoming Wizengamot trial of the white-robed wizard, which they, Jacob and Merula would be required to testify. Jacob's sibling was worried how everyone would react if the wizard would say R wanted to recruit them.[196]
Doxy infestation
Jacob's sibling talking to Corey beside Victor Ketsueki
As the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, Professor Dumbledore spoke to Jacob's sibling about the trial and reminded them of the gravity of the situation. They talked to Merula thereafter, who stormed off upon hearing some friendship speech involving Ismelda from them. They also spoke to Corey about her and noticed Victor Ketsueki, a Ravenclaw student in their year, talking to a bunch of students.[197]
Jacob's sibling Untransfiguring R's quill
Jacob's sibling and Corey went to the Whomping Willow and found another note which warned the receiver not to cross "us". It suggested that Merula may not have been completely on R's side. Just as they Untransfigured it back to a black quill, Merula arrived and confronted them, but they fobbed her off and soon left. The two then discussed the note and Merula in the Artefact Room, and thought it would be a good idea to ask Merula to become a double agent. Suddenly, a Doxy flew out and bit Corey.[197]
The students with a Bundimun in Hagrid's Garden
When Jacob's sibling visited Corey in the Hospital Wing, they heard from Madam Pomfrey that many students suffered Doxy bites, indicating a Doxy infestation. They visited Professor Kettleburn and learnt more about Doxies with Chiara while feeding Fire Crabs, and then went to the Herbology Classroom to collect ingredients for Doxycide with Professor Sprout and Barnaby, who believed he was the cause of the infestation. Due to a lack of Bundimun Ooze, they looked for some Bundimuns in Hagrid's Garden and captured one using the Stunning Spell. With all of the ingredients, Jacob's sibling completed brewing some Doxycide with Ben in the Potions Classroom. Chiara then alerted them to Doxies showing up in Peeves' Room.[198]
Physical description
Jacob's sibling's physical appearance is mostly a mystery. However, it is known that they are slender and of average height. They usually wore the traditional school robes.[199]
Personality and traits
Jacob's sibling was extremely compassionate and, while not as perceptive as their best friend Rowan Khanna, still possessed a keen intellect. They were very talented and academically competent, being skilled in a number of magical fields, receiving much praise from the majority of their teachers, often responding to such praise by grinning. They were also skilled at coming up with things quickly and lying effectively, though they never lied if they could avoid doing so.
Thanks to the actions of their brother Jacob, they were often the subject of dislike and apprehension and had difficulty making friends. They were unfazed by this, and instead chose to be nonjudgmental and accepting of those around them. Jacob's sibling was very loyal to their friends. They were always eager to help them, such as when they helped Ben Copper overcome his fear of riding a broomstick and convinced him to stop isolating in a closet, and when they acted like they could see through Talbott Winger's apparent lack of desire for friendship in general. Jacob's sibling was also very empathetic, as best shown by how they treated Talbott Winger, Barnaby Lee, Ismelda Murk and Merula Snyde.
Jacob's sibling was very courageous, as they stood up to Merula Snyde, Severus Snape, and even Fenrir Greyback, and sought out the Cursed Vaults relentlessly in spite of the teachers warning them not to. Jacob's sibling believed that in finding the vaults, they would gain new knowledge and treasure, but most of their drive came from wanting to find their brother, whom they loved unconditionally.
Though never a defining trait, Jacob's sibling had a cheeky and occasionally sarcastic sense of humour, such as when they encouraged Ben to stop isolating and added "…though the skulls might miss you". In their first year, Merula told them they were unwanted to which they replied "You're the one everyone wishes would just go away." When Chiara Lobosca accused them of having ulterior motives for chatting, they replied, "It's possible my ulterior motive might be trying to get to know you better."
In their second year, Jacob's sibling developed a passion for Quidditch as well as possessing a natural talent for it, which created a bond with Skye Parkin and, later, Erika Rath. They initially started as a Chaser, though in subsequent years, opening in the team roster also saw them playing Beater, Keeper, and Seeker. In their fourth year, team captain Orion Amari stepped back from duties while recovering from an injury, so Jacob's sibling and Skye split the captain's role between them.
For Jacob's sibling, their years at Hogwarts had been a journey of growth and renewal. Despite being a lonely child who frequently watched their brother closely with immense concern and kept to themselves, Jacob's sibling had found a family at school that could relate to them and give them new purpose and meaning. Their social skills improved phenomenally during their magical education. Indeed, they tended to form the closest relationships (positive and negative) with students who brought out their own strengths: being around Rowan Khanna had made them more intellectual, being around Ben Copper had made them more compassionate, being around Penny Haywood had made them more extroverted, being around Nymphadora Tonks had made them more unafraid of being themselves, being around Skye Parkin had made them more sports-minded, and being around Merula Snyde had made them more empathetic and less vulnerable. Jacob's sibling tended to have some of those effects on their friends in turn, as people like Haywood and Talbott Winger had pointed out, they were both a safe place and dependable source when their friends were vulnerable, endangered, conflicted, or all of the above.
Magical abilities and skills
"Father says you are the best in your year."
— Draco Malfoy[src]
Magical aptitude: An academically strong student, Jacob's sibling quickly achieved such good results in their schoolwork that they received praise from most of their teachers, with Albus Dumbledore, arguably the greatest wizard of all time, openly acknowledging their magical prowess to be exemplary. They demonstrated tremendous ability and proved a cleverer student than most of their classmates, quickly mastering and becoming the best in most of the fields of magic taught at Hogwarts. Indeed, their formidable magical power allowed them to achieve O.W.L.s in all their subjects, to apprehend the immensely savage Fenrir Greyback alongside the Werewolf Capture Unit, to assist Auror Alastor Moody in tracking down the malevolent organisation R, to come out as the triumphant winner of the prestigious All-Wizard Tournament, to master the extremely powerful and difficult Patronus Charm by only their fourth year, and to save Hogwarts from the menacing threat of the Cursed Vaults on numerous occasions.
Love: Jacob's sibling loved their older brother unconditionally, being devastated when he went missing from home and shedding tears over his sudden disappearance. Their love for him spurred them to take action and rescue him by obsessively searching for the Cursed Vaults for many years, despite their teachers explicitly forbidding them to do so under the threat of expulsion from Hogwarts and despite the extreme danger in which Jacob's sibling repeatedly placed themselves under while seeking out each of the Cursed Vaults. Although their love was at its strongest when directed towards their brother, as he was the driving force that kept them persisting until they found him, their love also extended towards their friends, whom they were always willing to help or assist in whatever way they could whenever their friends were vulnerable, endangered or conflicted, which, in turn, resulted in Jacob's sibling developing an exceedingly compassionate nature. Their compassion even enabled them to sympathise with those whom they were initially antagonistic with, such as Merula Snyde, Barnaby Lee, and Ismelda Murk.
Indomitable willpower: The will of Jacob's sibling was extremely strong, and while not above self-doubt, they have never been known to give up on anything or anyone, tirelessly seeking the Cursed Vaults for the sake of their brother. Their willpower gave them great courage, enough to stand in the face of Merula's antics, Snape's cruelty, and Greyback's murderous intent.
"You truly do have a gift for Charms."
— Filius Flitwick[src]
Charms: Jacob's sibling was known to be exceptionally skilled in charm-work, as they achieved either an "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding" on their O.W.L. exam to be able to advance to N.E.W.T.-level Charms.[130] In their very first lesson, they cast the best Wand-Lighting Charm that Professor Flitwick had seen from a first-year in a long time. They were usually the first to master any new spell Professor Flitwick taught (such as the Disarming Charm, the Levitation Charm, and the Unlocking Charm) with little difficulty, and by their second year, they were capable of casting the Shrinking Charm to such an effect that they became the size of an insect and thus, virtually invisible to the naked eye. They could also just as easily reverse the effect with an Engorgement Charm without experiencing any side effects. During class, Professor Flitwick would often commend them for their 'fine technique' and even request that they assist him in demonstrating how to cast spells properly for their fellow classmates, as well as tutouring classmates in various spells. By their fourth year, they produced a Shield Charm that was strong enough to deflect a Blasting Curse from the much older and more experienced Patricia Rakepick, visibly impressing her. They even performed an advanced Memory Charm to erase the memory of Merula Snyde when she overhead important information about Talbott Winger in their third year. Jacob's sibling was also able to cast a Levitation Charm so powerful that it made themself levitate mid-air during their fourth year. Furthermore, they learned how to conjure a fully-corporeal Patronus Charm by their fourth year, an outstanding feat for a Hogwarts student. Indeed, the Charms Master himself openly acknowledged Jacob's sibling to be one of his most talented students. Outside of class, they notably tutored Skye Parkin, in return for her training in Quidditch techniques while planning to try out for their House Quidditch team.
"You continue to exhibit a gift for Potions."
— Severus Snape[src]
Potions: Jacob's sibling was superbly talented in potion-making, as they achieved an "Outstanding" on their O.W.L. exam[200] to be able to advance to the N.E.W.T.-level Potions class taught by Severus Snape,[134] thus displaying their great proficiency for potion-making. They were able to brew everything from basic to moderately difficult concoctions to the desired effect, notably brewing a Fire-Breathing Potion flawlessly after only seeing the Potions Master do it once. Indeed, despite his personal dislike of the student, Severus Snape himself admitted that this individual had an undeniable gift for potions and Penny Haywood, arguably the best student of the subject, praised Jacob's sibling's talent in potion-making, going so far as to suggest that they consider a career as a Potioneer.
Jacob's sibling Disarming Merula Snyde
Duelling: Jacob's sibling quickly became a formidable duellist for their age, outclassing the likes of the more experienced Merula Snyde and even Bill Weasley, both of whom were of one of the most skilled students at Hogwarts, with the latter having two years of education over them. Though usually coming out triumphant in most duels against their peers, they were unable to beat Ben Copper in a duel to the death, who trounced them but was quickly defeated when Patricia Rakepick came for the rescue, striking him with a Blasting Curse. This individual's skills were already so great by their first year that they could even hold off Fenrir Greyback while he was in his werewolf form, with some swift spell-casting. By their fifth year, they were able to out-duel a Dark Witch in Knockturn Alley, despite being there for the first time and defeated an adult wizard named Alistair Fidgen, when he threatened their friend Jae Kim. However, they were no match for Patricia Rakepick, as she easily subdued them before they could even cast a spell in their fifth year and again when they attempted to attack her in their sixth year. They also acknowledged the vast gap between them and Dumbledore, noting that it would be suicide for them to try to infiltrate his office. This individual was able to out-duel the more experienced Peter Pettigrew after he revealed himself to them. Their duelling aptitude was also clearly staggering in that they were capable of facing and subduing some of the most dangerous beasts in the world, notably being capable enough to overpower the Forest Vault Acromantula (with even the formidable Rubeus Hagrid being seemingly unwilling to contend with the beast), to single-handedly defeat a Hungarian Horntail (with even the incredibly powerful Patricia Rakepick being incapable of performing such a feat during her youth, despite having received assistance from accomplices) and to hold off the incredibly savage Chimaera long enough for others to come to their rescue on more than one occasion. By their sixth year, they were even able to contend with Alastor Moody, who was considered to be the most famous Auror of all time and an extremely skilled duellist, in a duel training with him. Although they themselves acknowledged that Moody wasn't fighting seriously, which Moody himself admitted as he was only trying to assess their skills, Moody still acknowledged their duelling prowess, even going so far as to say that they could give some of his Aurors difficulty in besting them. Their duelling skills improved considerably by the time they ventured into the Sunken Vault, as they managed to single handedly defeat the extremely talented and dangerous Patricia Rakepick with a powerful Disarming Charm after she defeated Merula Snyde, Ben Copper and Jacob, and surprised, acknowledged that their skills improved since the last time they met. By their seventh year, this individual received Auror field training in the Ministry of Magic under Alastor Moody's supervision, which helped further improve their duelling skills. They were able to defeat Zenith Xeep in a duel in Knockturn Alley, forcing her to drink her own Luscious Locks Solution, which erased her entire memory, in order to avoid getting captured and giving them information about the stolen wand and the Dark Witch she was talking to. Their ability to fight both skilled duellists and dark wizards showed them to have considerable proficiency in martial magic.
"You were born to fly."
— Rolanda Hooch[src]
"You're a Quidditch phenom."
— Murphy McNully[src]
Flying: Jacob's sibling's flying skills were exceptional, beyond the array of aerial manoeuvres taught in Flying class. They were also a very skilled Quidditch player, joining their house's team as Chaser initially in their second year. Showing natural courage, instincts, agility and stamina, they convinced Skye Parkin to coach them. Some of their most impressive feats on a broomstick range from balancing one-legged on a broom for nearly three hours, to weaving through three opposing Chasers while broom-surfing with incredible reflexes and dexterity.
Charisma: Jacob's sibling was highly talented in befriending and inspiring others, such that they were able to quickly form many strong friendships and even befriend people that were hostile towards them.
Leadership skills: Jacob's sibling was shown to be a very accomplished and talented leader, as they were able to found and effectively lead the Circle of Khanna against R, productively coordinating the group's efforts and inspiring fierce loyalty from them all.
Curse-Breaker: Like Bill Weasley, this individual was a gifted curse-breaker, even when it was due to the urgency to find Jacob. This individual was able to unlock the secrets behind the Cursed Vaults.
"You have a talent for solving mysteries."
— Albus Dumbledore[src]
Detective skills: Jacob's sibling had tremendous skills in tracking and detection, since they tracked down their brother Jacob to the Portrait Vault after years of skilfully employing both inductive and deductive reasoning in their dogged pursuit of the Cursed Vaults, outsmarting the Aurors and the professors that had investigated the Vaults prior to Jacob's sibling's arrival at Hogwarts.
Teaching skills: Jacob's sibling was an excellent teacher of Charms, as they often tutored struggling students. This was even acknowledged by Professor Flitwick and Professor Tofty.
"Your skill in Transfiguration belies your years."
— Minerva McGonagall[src]
Transfiguration: Jacob's sibling demonstrated considerable talent in transfiguration, as they achieved either an "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding" on their O.W.L. exam to be able to study the subject further at N.E.W.T.-level.[129] They succeeded in casting the best Reparifarge spell (an untransfiguration spell) on their first try, impressing even Professor Minerva McGonagall with their talent, who deemed their abilities in transfiguration to belay their years. As a matter of fact, McGonagall was so impressed that she even offered to give this individual advanced transfiguration lessons outside the class. Jacob's sibling was also able to learn the intermediate level Revelio Charm (normally taught to fourth-year students) by their second year. Indeed, their skill in this subject was so advanced that already before graduating, they were able to become a fully-fledged Animagus, with immense dedication and hard work.[11]
Herbology: By their own admission, one of Jacob's sibling's favourite classes was Herbology, with them being able to achieve an O.W.L. on the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level,[132] thus demonstrating their proficiency for the magical field. They were knowledgeable in various types of magical plants and were also able to successfully grow a perfect specimen of Sugar Shrub in their third year, remarking that whoever drank Butterbeer made with this was in for a "sugar shock", thus showcasing their impressive talent in this subject.
Quidditch knowledge: Jacob's sibling confessed to Andre Egwu that they were knowledgeable in Quidditch, despite not playing the sport themselves until second year, during which they gained more knowledge with help from Penny Haywood, and possibly even passed the Face Paint Kid's Knowledge Quiz.
Wizard's Chess: Jacob's sibling had some talent in Wizard's Chess, as they even impressed Professor McGonagall with their ability.
"You have a way with patients."
— Poppy Pomfrey[src]
Healing magic: After taking care of an injured Rowan, Jacob's sibling became an assistant of Madam Pomfrey, and studied healing magic on their own, who would eventually denote them as a natural Healer and an exceptional assistant, to the point of beginning to wonder if Jacob's sibling might eventually proceed her in being responsible for the Hospital Wing one day, which certainly highlighted their skill and knowledge in medical magic. They were proficient with the casting of the Healing spell Episkey as well as the Bandaging Charm.
"Yeh got a way with creatures."
— Rubeus Hagrid[src]
Care of Magical Creatures: Jacob's sibling was shown to possess a natural flair for Care of Magical Creatures, being able to achieve an O.W.L. on the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level[135], thus showcasing their talent for handling and communicating with various magical creatures, along with the understanding of them. This individual began taking this class in their third year of Hogwarts education, and was known to have been rather good in the subject, showing their interest and skill in the field of Magizoology. Indeed, Charlie Weasley, one of the best students of the subject, commended Jacob's sibling's flair for tending to magical creatures, going so far as to suggest that they consider a career as a Magizoologist.
History of Magic: Jacob's sibling was skilled in History of Magic, as they were able to achieve an O.W.L. in the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level.,[133] an impressive achievement, given the subject's infamy for being exceedingly dull. Ismelda Murk, one of the best students of the subject, recognised Jacob's sibling's knowledge in magical history, going so far as to suggest that they consider a career as a Magical Historian.
Defence Against the Dark Arts: When they were tutored, alongside the rest of their year, by the famous Patricia Rakepick, in Defence Against the Dark Arts, Jacob's sibling soon became the best student of the subject, seamlessly mastering Hex Deflection and proving quite adept in repelling the dark creatures of the lessons. Rakepick herself praised their abilities in this field, with them having achieved either an 'Exceeds Expectations or 'Outstanding' on their O.W.L. exam to be able to study the subject further at N.E.W.T.-level.[136] They also successfully learned many defensive and offensive spells during their DADA education, including spells taught by their classmates. For an example of their defensive skills, in their Third year, they were successfully able to subdue a Boggart in the form of Lord Voldemort with the Boggart-Banishing Spell. Indeed, Alastor Moody, arguably the greatest Auror of all time, expressed his pride in Jacob's sibling, praising them for their Auror-like mindset while Nymphadora Tonks, who would later grow up to become a successful Auror, suggested that Jacob's sibling consider the career, given that they had experience hunting down Dark wizards and clearly displayed familiarity with the job and training.
Dark Arts: Though seldom a practitioner of the Dark Arts, Jacob's sibling was nonetheless surprisingly adept in its usage, being able to successfully cast a vast array of dark charms, such as the hex Densaugeo, the Sea Urchin Jinx, the Knockback Jinx, Langlock, the Curse of the Bogies, the Ear-Shrivelling Curse, the Jelly-Legs Curse, the Conjunctivitis Curse, the Reductor Curse and the Blasting Curse. They were, however, horrified when Patricia Rakepick used the Cruciatus Curse on a Dark Wizard in Knockturn Alley, rejecting her offer to teach the curse to them and adamantly refusing to ever use it on anyone.
Singing skills: Jacob's sibling was a surprisingly skilled singer, as when singing with Tulip Karasu's toad Dennis in front of a variety of listeners, their skills were sufficient enough to be acknowledged by the popular music band the Weird Sisters, Choir Master Filius Flitwick and even the callous Severus Snape. Indeed, despite the relatively short time that they had to begin honing their singing capabilities, they already proved themselves to surpass the singing prowess of the more experienced Merula Snyde. As such, Jacob's sibling put on such an impressive showing to Flitwick during their audition to be the newest member of the Frog Choir, that Tulip deemed their performance to be the best out of all the participants, which was ultimately proven true when Flitwick offered them exclusive membership into the Frog Choir.
Dancing skills: Jacob's sibling had some skills in dancing, as they learned the Badger Shuffle and used it to win the Team Dance Contest with Diego Caplan. They also participated in several balls organised by the school, such as the Celestial Ball and the Valentine's Day Ball.
Artistic skills: Jacob's sibling had some artistic skills, as they helped Badeea Ali paint for the Valentine's Day Ball.
Cooking skills: Jacob's sibling had some cooking skills, as they proved to be capable of making food that even pleased Madam Pince and Professor Snape.
Nonverbal and Wandless magic: Jacob's sibling was apparently quite capable in casting nonverbal spells, as they subdued a Hungarian Horntail using the Sleeping Charm, duelled against Patricia Rakepick in the Portrait Vault and later again in the Forest Grove, all without uttering a word. They also demonstrated impressive wandless magic when using the Butterfly-conjuring spell during their imitation of the Beauxbatons dance routine, a performance that Madame Maxime ultimately deemed magnificent. They performed wandless magic when they were young, shattering one of their mother's tea sets when they sneezed. Their mother thought Jacob had done it until they repeated the feat with a vase a few weeks later when Jacob was at school. On another occasion, they laughed a flower back to life.
Legilimency: This individual was a natural-born and powerful Legilimens, like their brother Jacob, thus giving them the magical ability to read and navigate the minds of others. They have successfully used this power against Argus Filch, Madam Rosmerta, and several of the Hogwarts house-elves, but were repelled by Snape. They also lacked any facility with Occlumency and were thus unable to defend themselves from mental intrusion.
Spell creation: Jacob's sibling helped Badeea Ali invent the Star Shower Spell and designed the Snowfall spell to such potency by themselves that they inadvertently created a snowstorm. Nonetheless, these are both highly impressive magical achievements, given the very high level of difficulty of creating new spells.
Divination: Jacob's sibling was skilled in Divination, as they were able to achieve an O.W.L in the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level,[131] thus showing aptitude in the subject.
Astronomy: Jacob's sibling was skilled in Astronomy, as they were able to achieve an O.W.L in the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level,[137] thus showing aptitude in the subject.
Muggle Studies: Jacob's sibling was skilled in Muggle Studies, as they were able to achieve an O.W.L in the subject and study it further at N.E.W.T.-level, thus showing aptitude in the subject.
Alchemy: During investigations about a rogue alchemist, Jacob's sibling studied books about Alchemy, and was able to successfully apply their newly gained knowledge about the subject.
Possessions
First wand: Jacob's sibling obtained this wand from Ollivanders before their first year. This wand was destroyed by Patricia Rakepick in the 1988–1989 school year.
Photo of Hogwarts: Jacob's sibling was gifted this picture by Chiara Lobosca after becoming friends with her.
Comet 260: Jacob's sibling was gifted this Comet 260 broom by Rubeus Hagrid and Rolanda Hooch after the Comet 220 broom that Skye Parkin had intended to give them was destroyed by Hagrid's Crups.
Custom-made Keeper Gear: Former team Keeper gave this custom-made Keeper Gear to Jacob's sibling after they caught the legendary, escaped Golden Snitch. It's was tougher and more comfortable than the standard issue armor.
Quidditch Plaques: At the end of each season playing Quidditch, Jacob's sibling received a plaque denoting the position they played that season.
Butterscotch Demiguise statue: Andre and Jules Egwu gave them a candy statue that was enchanted to never melt, in honour of their capture of a Demiguise that had been stealing sweets from the area around Hogsmeade.
Bubotuber Flitterby: Jacob's sibling received a Bubotuber cutting from Torvus in honour of their peaceful resolution of a conflict between his colony and a Forest Troll with a taste for bubotubers.
Photo of their Patronus: Jacob's sibling was given this photo by Nymphadora Tonks after conjuring it to repel a Dementor that had infiltrated Hogwarts.
Photo of the Festival of Magic: Jacob's sibling received this photograph of the Qudditch Pitch decorated for the Outdoor festival of magic after they and their date were named festival ambassadors.
Jacob's notebook: Jacob's sibling had obtained their older brother Jacob's notebook after they transformed it back into a notebook from a black quill. With the help of Nymphadora Tonks, they managed to get it back from Filch's office.
Dress robes: Jacob's sibling wore a set of dress robes, designed and created by Andre Egwu, to the Celestial Ball. They had a choice between three different styles: Star-Studded, Classic Glamour and Forest Fancy. Andre later created more outfits for his friend to wear at various events.
Potential second wands
Second wand: Jacob's sibling purchased a new wand in the 1988–1989 school year after Patricia Rakepick destroyed their first wand.
Hand-made Puffskein Toy: Beatrice Haywood gave Jacob's sibling a Puffskein toy that she had made as a gift.
Storybook and Heart Key Necklace
Valentine's Day Storybook: At the conclusion of the Valentine's Day Ball, Jacob's sibling's date gave them a special storybook containing a romantic fairytale, inspired by the couple's experiences of planning for the ball. Jacob's sibling also received the key to the book on a chain to wear as a necklace.
Heart statue: Jacob's sibling received a special heart shaped decoration from their date after a Valentine's Day Event hosted by Gilderoy Lockhart.
The All-Wizard Cup
All-Wizard Cup: A trophy awarded to Jacob's sibling after they won the prestigious All-Wizard Tournament. It resided on a shelf in their dormitory.
Marauder's Map: Jacob's sibling obtained the Marauder's Map after they found it on the floor of the Icy Corridor along with Scabbers in their fifth year.
Invisibility cloak: Jacob's sibling was given a invisibility cloak by Alistair Fidgen in exchange for a Love Potion to sneak into the British Ministry of Magic. They practised using the Invisibility cloak by sneaking around and eavesdropping on the professors' conversations.
Pets
Jacob's sibling also kept several pets in their dorm room including:
Owl
Cat: Jacob's sibling bought this cat shortly before the pet gathering held by Rubeus Hagrid. They and their cat helped Fang overcome his fear of cats, which had possibly originated from Mrs Norris.
Crup
Rat: Jacob's sibling bought this rat shortly before Charlie Weasley asked help for Scabbers. Scabbers had been acting oddly at the time and Charlie felt that being around another rat may help.
Cruppy: Jacob's sibling bought this Crup puppy shortly before the tricks exhibition held by Rubeus Hagrid. The Cruppy was so well-trained that he could do a perfect roll-over at the exhibition, which made him the winner.
Frog
Bat
Kneazle
Kneazle kitten
Puffskein
Owlet
Streeler
Spider
Moke
Jackalope
Relationships
Barnaby: "I asked someone special but they haven't answered yet..."
Penny: "Yes, same here..."
Andre: "I've invited someone special too, but I haven't heard back..."
Talbott: "There's only one person I'd go with. I'm waiting to hear..."
Merula: "I might've suggested that a certain someone should be my date..."
Jacob's sibling: "Um... Well, I... uh..."
— Barnaby, Penny, Andre, Talbott, and Merula all confessing their romantic love for Jacob's sibling[src]
Jacob's sibling had at one point been considerably popular; during the preparation of Voyages, Vampires, and Valentines!, all of the other invited individuals, Andre Egwu, Penny Haywood, Barnaby Lee, Merula Snyde, and Talbott Winger, had sought them out individually, in the hopes of becoming their date for the event.[201] They also sought out their friend for the Valentine's Day Ball in their Fifth year.
Jacob's sibling may have previously delevoped a particular crush on one of their friends and escorted that person to the Celestial Ball and on a First Date. Later they may have gone on full dates with some of their friends.
"Well, I think we should put it back in order for them, don't you?"
This entry needs to be cleaned up to conform to a higher standard of quality.
See How to Edit for help, or this entry's Talk Page.
Family
Jacob: "Thank you for not giving up on me."
Jacob's sibling: "I could have never given up on you. You're my older brother."
— Jacob and his younger sibling, after reuniting.[src]
Jacob was this individual's older brother. It is implied that they had a rather close and affectionate relationship with him during their early childhood, as they pretended to duel with Liquorice Wands with Jacob when they were younger and even stole Sickles from their mother's coat pockets at his behest. When Jacob came home after his first year of Hogwarts, he tried to teach them all the magic he learned at Hogwarts, of which they were unable to perform any of it, but it remained one of the three possibilities of their happiest memory used to cast the Patronus Charm. After Jacob went mysteriously missing following his expulsion from Hogwarts, his younger sibling was left devastated and mourned his disappearance with their mother. When assaulted by a Dementor, they are forced to relive their worst memory: their mother sobbing uncontrollably upon learning Jacob's disappearance.
Jacob's disappearance also had major repercussions on his sibling outside of family tragedy. Due to his morbid obsession with the Cursed Vaults, subsequent expulsion and apparent initiation into the Death Eaters, Jacob inadvertently established a rather infamous reputation and was perceived as insane by the wizarding world. Being of his kin, his younger sibling, too, was largely viewed by suspicion, distrust and even hate (with Snape and Merula being among their biggest detractors), which thus affected their early years of schooling and ability to make a first good impression on people. Despite all this, however, Jacob's sibling never felt bitter or resentful towards the negative publicity that they received, caused by their brother, and continued to feel nothing but unconditional love for Jacob. Their early years at Hogwarts was marked by agony over the mysterious whereabouts of their brother, thus leading them to resolve to find and rescue him no matter what.
Indeed, this strong, unconditional love for their brother became their primary point of obsession with seeking the Cursed Vaults, inciting them to sometimes behave recklessly and enact dangerous schemes in their goal to save Jacob, such as igniting the cloak of a member of faculty and fighting a troll in the Hogwarts grounds. They would also defend Jacob's honour against accusations and mockery when necessary, refusing to believe the perpetuated rumour that he was insane and had joined the Death Eaters.
After finally rescuing and reuniting their brother in 1989, Jacob's sibling was shown to be incredibly relieved and happy at seeing their brother safe and sound.
The Weasleys
Bill Weasley
Bill Weasley, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling admired Bill Weasley, but not as much as Rowan Khanna did. The two became close allies because of how much they had in common and were both very helpful to each other when it came to martial magic.
Charlie Weasley
Charlie Weasley, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling presumably better familiarised themselves with Charlie Weasley in their third year of Hogwarts, during which they shared Care of Magical Creatures with him. Their friendship with him evolved to such that Charlie offered to talk down the imperious Merula Snyde on their behalf during their fourth year.
Friends
Rowan Khanna
Jacob's sibling met Rowan Khanna at Diagon Alley. The two became best friends at school. They both bonded over the fact that both of them did not truly have anyone else going into Hogwarts — Jacob's sibling was regarded as insane thanks to their brother's actions, and Rowan was socially inept and mostly talked about trees. They continuously helped each other get through both everyday and life-threatening situations. When Rowan died, they were devastated, and it was hard for them to get over the loss.
Ben Copper
Ben Copper, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling was quite friendly with Ben Copper, although not as close as Rowan. They cared deeply for his well-being, as they became very worried when he went missing, and showed their loyalty to him by infiltrating Gryffindor Tower merely because it may or may not lead to him. They also helped Ben to get over his fear of flying.
Penny Haywood
Penny Haywood, one of their best friends
Penny Haywood: "Thank you again for all of your help. I can't imagine what life would be like without you."
Jacob's sibling: "I feel the same way, Penny. I'll always be here for you."
— Penny Haywood and Jacob's sibling[src]
Jacob's sibling admired Penny Haywood for her popularity, kindness, and overall competence. She treated them cordially, but they got her attention by standing up to Merula Snyde. They brewed a potion together to neutralise Mrs Norris. Penny was grateful for Jacob's sibling putting her in a life-threatening situation, as she loved excitement more than they did. She always seemed to know what was going on at Hogwarts, which made her very useful as well. They were surprised when she was close to Talbott Winger.
Nymphadora Tonks
Nymphadora Tonks, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling and Nymphadora Tonks met in their first year at Hogwarts, and shared Herbology class together. Over the course of the next couple of years, they grew close and became best friends, often going to Hogsmeade to visit Zonko's Joke Shop in particular in order to plan their pranks together.
Barnaby Lee
Barnaby Lee, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling initially had an antagonistic relationship with Barnaby Lee because of his loyalty to Merula and his threats to them. However, they began getting along better when Barnaby joined their side and Merula later did the same, and when they helped him when Ismelda Murk tried to drug him via Love Potion. He also said Jacob's sibling was very polite and brave and looked adorable when they rolled their eyes in response to his puns and when they discussed animals and ruefully used Engorgement Charms on his drinks at Hogsmeade, though he was under magical effects when he said it.
Talbott Winger
"I never thought I'd be happy to meet someone who can never mind their own business."
— Talbott Winger[src]
Talbott Winger, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling first met Talbott Winger when looking to become an Animagus. They were surprised to learn he was close to Penny Haywood. They did not, however, become friends until they located Talbott's swan necklace and took it back from Mrs Norris.
Andre Egwu
Andre Egwu, one of their best friends
Andre Egwu attended Transfiguration and Flying classes with Jacob's sibling, although the two didn't know each other a lot and only regarded the other as a classmate. When Jacob's sibling ventured out to Hogsmeade for the first time, Andre properly introduced himself to them and expressed his gratitude for them breaking the cursed ice that had encased him in the Quidditch Changing Rooms, thus unknowingly saving his life.
Tulip Karasu
Tulip Karasu, a good friend
Jacob's sibling got along with Tulip Karasu and they teamed up seeking the Cursed Vaults. Although Tulip had in fact betrayed Merula for a better chance at actually finding the vaults, she later came to regret this and Jacob's sibling helped to ease her guilt, with Merula working with them both in the future. In spite of this, Tulip was surprised that Jacob's sibling did not have a grudge against Merula or distrust her entirely.
Skye Parkin
Skye Parkin, a good friend
Jacob's sibling bonded with Skye Parkin over their shared passion for Quidditch, though they were annoyed with her zealous attitude. Both of them were able to work effectively together as two units on the same team over a common objective of winning the House Cup.
Murphy McNully
Jacob's sibling bonded with Murphy McNully over their shared passion for Quidditch, though they were annoyed with his excessive talking. Both of them were able to work effectively together as two units on the same team over a common objective of winning the House Cup.
Orion Amari
Jacob's sibling bonded with Orion Amari over their shared passion for Quidditch, though they were annoyed with his old-fashioned, almost medieval rhetoric. Both of them were able to work effectively together as two units on the same team over a common objective of winning the House Cup.
Others
Merula Snyde
"There are so many things at Hogwarts you're not smart enough to understand, [Jacob's sibling]. Trying to uncover those things is going to get you killed..."
— Merula Snyde[src]
Merula Snyde, their arch-rival and enemy turned ally
Merula Snyde became the archrival of Jacob's sibling almost immediately upon arriving at Hogwarts. Merula came from a supremacist family and desired to surpass all others, thus she considered herself superior to virtually everyone. She bullied Jacob's sibling for allegedly being cursed, though they did not truly hate Merula and merely wished she would leave them alone. They first met when Merula tried to force Rowan Khanna into claiming she was the most powerful witch in the wizarding world, and she baffled them by already knowing who they were. Jacob's sibling learned she was born of two Death Eaters, and while it made them realise why she was a bully, it did not soften their mutual enmity at all.
They were forced to resort to violence when Merula antagonised them and again when she antagonised Ben Copper. During their first round, Merula bested them with a Trip Jinx, but they bested her the second time via the Disarming Charm. They were forced to challenge her a third time in their second year, and while Merula agreed to no more duelling, she refused to stay off his tail. They were also enemies because they both sought to find the Cursed Vaults, albeit for different reasons. When Jacob's sibling arrived with Rowan Khanna and another friend, she used the Trip Jinx against all three of them, confusing Jacob's sibling who did not understand why she wanted to solve the mystery as much as he did. She believed they were going to meet a sticky end someday.
Despite being enemies, they began getting along better when Patricia Rakepick recruited the both of them as apprentices.
Ismelda Murk
Ismelda Murk, their enemy turned ally
Ismelda Murk used to despise Jacob's sibling for the threat they posed to Merula's chances of finding the Cursed Vaults, but after they helped her resolve her enmity with Erika Rath and her obsession with Barnaby Lee, their relationship grew less hostile.
Hogwarts staff
"The only thing I value less than you, [surname], is your apology. Sit down."
— Severus Snape[src]
Members of Hogwarts staff this student had noteworthy relations with
Jacob's sibling generally had a positive relationship with the staff at Hogwarts, who were all impressed by their academic prowess. However, they were also looked at with apprehension because of Jacob, and was looked at with particular apprehension for their wrongdoings. They generally got along with Filius Flitwick, though he hesitated teaching them the Trip Jinx. They also had a good relationship with Rubeus Hagrid and frequently came to his rescue. Their worst relationship, inevitably, was with Severus Snape, who always treated them with contempt and frequently looked for reasons to take House Points from them. He was never fair with them either, such as when he gave them a single point for making a better potion than Merula Snyde, whom he pretended to like when he actually despised her. Their best relationship was of course with Albus Dumbledore, who openly acknowledged their magical prowess to be exemplary and treated them with nothing but respect and kindness and none of the apprehension the other staff members did for their wrongdoings and actually expressed sympathy for them, to the point where he even gave them House Points for saving Hogwarts from three of the curses of the Cursed Vaults. Even though Dumbledore could get stern and firm with Jacob's sibling, it was for their own good and apart from punishing them to constant detentions with Pitts, he had defended them from practically all of the staff's criticism.
Patricia Rakepick
Patricia Rakepick, a hated enemy
Presumably well aware of the events that lead to the expulsion of former Hogwarts student Jacob long before she ever met his younger sibling, given her own interest in the vaults, Patricia Rakepick took interest in the latter individual for their first-hand experience with the Cursed Vaults, and is known to have kept an eye on them, possibly even before she was invited back to Hogwarts by the Headmaster of the day, Albus Dumbledore, to help put the threat of the Cursed Vaults to rest. Though she did not waste any time soliciting the help of said student and their group of friends to make her own, sanctioned search for the vaults easier, and even assured Jacob's sibling she meant them no harm and even were investigating the identity of the mysterious wizard that had attacked them in the Clock Tower Courtyard after curfew by forging a letter with the handwriting of Silvanus Kettleburn. Severus Snape, however, the Potions Master and former schoolmate of Rakepick's, did not trust her at all, going so far as to saying she had ulterior motives for being at Hogwarts and that she was after the Cursed Vaults for her own gain, and quite possibly meant to kill both them and anyone else who stood in her way. Rakepick continued, however, to request the assistance of Jacob's sibling, teaching them the Shield Charm to test their abilities and, getting impressive results, continued to offer guidance, such as lending them her own Niffler to help in the search for clues and eventually teaching them the Spider repelling spell in order to prepare them for a potential fight with Acromantulas.
In the end, however, Snape's suspicions were proven partially correct when she fooled Jacob's sibling into breaking into the office of Argus Filch for a wild goose chase, only to swoop in and retrieve something she herself had been looking for. This eventually left Jacob's sibling uncertain if Rakepick can be trusted or if they were playing right into the hand of their potential enemy. Rakepick did redeem herself for her indiscretions, however, when she saved the life of Jacob's sibling by coming to their rescue just as their attacker was about to deliver the coup de grace, casting a Blasting Curse so powerful that the attacker was blasted backwards, across almost the whole length of the Clocktower Courtyard and into a wall, knocking them out cold. Upon undoing the Disillusionment Charm the attacker was under, they discovered that the person in question was Ben Copper, whom Rakepick transported back into the castle to prevent him from hurting himself or others while Jacob's sibling went after the Forest Vault.
Behind the scenes
The player character as they appear in the promotional trailer
The player character as they appear in the Quidditch trailer
The player character as they appear in the BackToHogwarts trailer
The player character as they appear in the BackToHogwarts trailer
This individual is the protagonist of Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Name, surname, gender, House and physical appearance are chosen by the player. The wand material also varies based on the player's goals and personality traits. Jacob's sibling's relationships, personality and choices may vary significantly depending on the player's decisions.
Even though the House is one of the factors chosen by the player, rivalry with Merula Snyde still occurs even if the individual is picked to be with Slytherin.
Rowan Khanna's gender and House is always the same as Jacob's sibling's.
Their brother, Orion Amari, Skye Parkin, Ethan Parkin, Murphy McNully, Face Paint Kid, and Elora Dunn are always in the same House as Jacob's sibling's.
Erika Rath is a Ravenclaw unless Jacob's sibling is in Ravenclaw, in which case she would be a Slytherin.
Corey Hayden is male if Jacob's sibling is female and vice versa.
The character's gender and house cannot be altered once set. The character's name, apperance, and out-of-class clothing may be altered at any time using the character customisation screen. Like all students, they automatically wear standard robes in class or, if they become a prefect in their fourth year, wear robes with a prefect badge in class.
The character's wand is set at the start of the game, with Jacob's sibling visiting Diagon Alley to get their first wand before their first year, and again in fifth year to get a replacement wand. In both cases, their choice of wand is determined by the answer to a question that Ollivander asks the character.
According to Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Slytherin had won the House Cup the six years before Gryffindor's win in Harry Potter's first year, 1992 (in 1986 through 1991). The fact that this individual's House is player-determined and that they are able to help their House win the House Cup can potentially cause a contradiction to the established canon of the books, by having another House win the Cup in those school year, meaning that either canonically Jacob's sibling was a Slytherin, or messing with the Cursed Vaults cost them the House Cup for six years in a row.
After the "Meet the Malfoys" side quest, Jacob's sibling can befriend Dobby which potentially contradicts canon where Dobby said no wizard had treated him as an equal, although technically Jacob's sibling may have been a witch and indeed is one in almost all promotional content.
As Jacob's sibling, you can also become an Animagus; depending on how you answer Penny's question, you can become a cat, a dog, or a bird. This can be done through a time-limited Animagus side quest, during which you can learn the ability and convince Talbott Winger to register with the Ministry. However, in the Flying Solo side quest, they are both unregistered as of Year 3, both have concerns about being found by Lord Voldemort and Death Eaters, even if Jacob's sibling can decide to voluntarily register at a later date.
Penny mentions the name Maya in official launch trailer of Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
In the official launch trailer of the game, Penny Haywood says, "Thanks, Maya! I know this plan is going to work." From this, we can assume that either the original name of this character is Maya, or that Maya is only a name set by the developers of the trailer.
Gizmo, which produces the cinematic trailers (with the brown-skinned, short dark haired Hufflepuff girl as Jacob's sibling), labels her as "Emma".
In the 1984–1985 school year, Jacob's sibling had visions showing Hogwarts covered in ice and an animated suit of armour. Their best friend, Rowan Khanna, said while discussing the vision with them later that "it appeared to have been some kind of prophecy", suggesting Jacob's sibling might be a Seer. Although, since Rowan was only a first-year, they might have been wrong. However, the incident with the Cursed ice later on hints that Jacob's sibling could indeed be a Seer. Jacob's sibling's later had another vision of two unknown rooms and Lord Voldemort, suggesting that this individual were a Seer. They later also hears brief spoken messages from Jacob in their mind, both of which were later revealed to be a result of how both they and Jacob had in common a natural gift in Legilimency, suggesting that Jacob might have used said ability to send them vibes, which is a similar but distinct process.
Jacob's sibling may also occasionally receive precognitions of what the opponent's next spell would be in duelling.
In the Beta mode of the game, there was a character named William. William was meant to be the name of the player's older brother. However, every scene where the name William was mentioned was replaced by the name Jacob in the final cut of the game. It's unknown whether William was intended to be the original name of Jacob or whether he was another character cut from the game.
Male protagonist, created by one of the players
Although never confirmed, it is heavily implied that the player character is a half-blood, as they are referred to as a Mudblood multiple times by Merula and Rakepick.
Female protagonist, created by one of the players
When playing Gobstones against Tonks, Jacob's sibling jokes that they might also be a Metamorphmagus, a tongue-in-cheek reference to the fact that the player can change the physical features of the character at any time they want.
In the fifth year, you can choose to sit O.W.L. through a side quest. You gain a minimum of seven Acceptable's, even if you fail to answer any question or perform any tasks. The maximum number of Outstanding grades is in the following seven subjects:
Charms
Potions
Transfiguration
Care of Magical Creatures
Herbology
History of Magic
Defence Against the Dark Arts
Divination, Astronomy and Muggle Studies are never acknowledged in the quest despite the fact that Jacob's sibling had to achieve O.W.L.s in those subjects, as they could study them in the sixth and seventh year.
Jacob's sibling is capable of studying over ten N.E.W.T. subjects in the game, which seems highly unrealistic in canonical terms, considering the massive difficulty of and workload of N.E.W.T. courses, and the fact that Hermione Granger (a top student in her year) only took seven herself.
Jacob's sibling might be bisexual or pansexual since (regardless of selected gender) they have the option of fancying and/or dating male and female characters.
Even if they get only an Acceptable on their Ordinary Wizarding Level Potions or Transfiguration, they still are allowed into the Nastily Exhausting Wizarding Test classes in year 6, which contradicts the statements made by Professor Snape and Professor McGonagall in the canon series. This may not be an error as the curriculum may have been updated after Jacob's sibling's time.
Jacob's sibling may have seen someone die before witnessing Rowan's death in sixth year. If the player completes the side quest The Dark Horse (available starting in third year), the character's ability to work with Thestrals suggests that they can see them. This is only possible if the person has witnessed and accepted death.[202]
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 447 images related to Jacob's sibling.
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑ Both their parents were wizards, so they were not Muggle-born.
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "ALL-WIZARD VICTOR" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 7 of Year 5.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, "Become a Prefect" Achievement - If Jacob's sibling was a Gryffindor male, his Prefect status would've been non-canonical, as Charles Weasley was the male Gryffindor Prefect of their year.
↑
5.0 5.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, "HEAD BOYS AND GIRLS" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 25 of Year 6.
↑
6.0 6.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Quidditch Season 1, Chapter 6 (The Chase is On)
↑
7.0 7.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Quidditch Season 2, Chapter 2 (Andre Egwu, Quidditch Wizard)
↑
8.0 8.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Quidditch Season 3, Chapter 1 (An Unfriendly Friendly)
↑
9.0 9.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 1 (Your Journey Begins)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, "Christmas at Hogwarts" Achievement - Part 1, Side Quest "The Christmas Holidays"
↑
11.0 11.1 11.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "Become an Animagus" Achievement - Player-determined. Can become a brown dog, a black and white cat or an eagle.
↑
12.0 12.1 12.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 7 (Jacob's Room)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "WELCOME TO THE SPHINX CLUB" Achievement
↑
14.0 14.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "A DRAGON'S QUEST" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 1 of Year 3.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "A BAD OMEN" Achievement
↑
16.0 16.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "The Frog Choir" Achievement - This event is time-limited and optional; Jacob's sibling has the option to get on the Frog Choir or suggest Merula Snyde as a member. Regardless, his spot in the choir is secured by Professor Flitwick, because Chester, Ravenclaw's Prefect would graduate at the end of Merula's 3rd year.
↑
17.0 17.1 17.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 20 (A Circle of Friends)
↑
18.0 18.1 18.2 18.3 18.4 18.5 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 30 (Into the Vault)
↑
19.0 19.1 19.2 19.3 19.4 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 42 (The Final Vault)
↑
20.0 20.1 20.2 20.3 20.4 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 2 (More Questions Than Answers)
↑ They were forbidden from riding brooms as a child because it was illegal. As we see with the Weasleys, riding brooms outside school does not constitute a breach of the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery, but if they lived near Muggles, then flying brooms might constitute a breach of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy, which would be far worse.
↑ They do not know what a car is in the "Christmas at the Burrow" adventure.
↑
23.0 23.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 2 (Welcome to Hogwarts)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 2 (Welcome to Hogwarts) - Charms Lesson "Lumos"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 2 (Welcome to Hogwarts) - Potions Lesson "Cure for Boils Potion"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 3 (Dealing With Trouble)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 4 (Revenge is Best Served Magical)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 5 (The Duel)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 6 (A Curious Corridor)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, "Howling Hallowe'en" Achievement
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 8 (Preparing for the Room)
↑
32.0 32.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 9 (Inside the Room)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 1, Chapter 10 (Year's End)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 1 (Year Two Begins)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, "DUELLING DEATHDAY PARTIES" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 1 of Year 2.
↑ It is Gryffindor if the player is in Ravenclaw or Slytherin, or Slytherin if the player is in Hufflepuff or Gryffindor.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 2 (Growing and Shrinking)
↑
38.0 38.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, "Christmas at the Burrow" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 2 of Year 2.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 3 (The Black Quill)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, "A SPECIAL CELEBRATION OF HOGWARTS TEACHERS!" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 3 of Year 2.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 4 (Revelio)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 5 (Rowan's Recovery)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, "Packmates" Achievement
↑ Chiara Friendship Adventure | Jam City Support - This event takes place after Chapter 5 of Year 2.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 6 (Bill Weasley)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, "MEET THE MALFOYS" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 6 of Year 2.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 7 (Facing the Door)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 8 (Training the Team)
↑
49.0 49.1 49.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Chapter 10 (The Vault of Ice)
↑ Although not yet available in Year 3, the Care of Magical Creatures and Divination classrooms are unlockable in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Hogwarts students take elective classes in their third year.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Side Quest "Farewell My Prefect"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 1 (Year Three Begins) - Herbology Lesson "Valerian Sprigs"
↑ Become an Animagus! | Jam City Support - This event takes place after Chapter 1 of Year 3.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 2 (Boggarts and Butterbeer)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 3 (Three Broomsticks)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 4 (Filching from Filch)
↑ Frog Choir | Jam City Support - This event takes place after Chapter 4 of Year 3.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 5 (Tulip Karasu)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 6 (The Letter from No One)
↑
60.0 60.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "A SCANDAL IN HOGSMEADE" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 7 of Year 3.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 8 (Barnaby Lee)
↑
62.0 62.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "Birds Of A Feather" Achievement
↑ Talbott Friendship Adventure | Jam City Support - This event takes place after Chapter 8 of Year 3.
↑
64.0 64.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 9 (The Vault of Fear)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 10 (Among Friends)
↑
66.0 66.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 1 (Year Four Begins)
↑
67.0 67.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, "Conjure a Patronus" Achievement
↑ Expecto Patronum! | Jam City Support - This event takes place after Chapter 1 of Year 4.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 2 (The Mysterious Madam Rakepick)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 3 (All About Bowtruckles)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 4 (Curse-Breakers)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, "Celestial Ball" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 4 of Year 4.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 5 (Time to Fly)
↑
74.0 74.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 6 (Explore the Forbidden Forest)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 7 (Beast, Beings, and Creatures)
↑
76.0 76.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, "First Date" Achievement
↑ First Date! | Jam City Support - This event takes place after Chapter 7 of Year 4.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 8 (Sickleworth)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 9 (Glittery Secrets)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 10 (Seeing Red)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 11 (Beautification Potion)
↑
82.0 82.1 82.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 12 (Working with Snape)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 13 (The Centaur's Arrow)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, "Magical Creatures Everywhere" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 13 of Year 4.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 14 (The Spider's Lair)
↑
86.0 86.1 86.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 15 (Dark Secrets)
↑
87.0 87.1 87.2 87.3 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 16 (The Forest Vault)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, "TORVUS AND THE TROUBLED FOREST" Achievement
↑
89.0 89.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "Ordinary Wizarding Levels" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 24 of Year 5.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Divination Classroom and Astronomy classroom are unlockable locations in Year 6.
↑
91.0 91.1 91.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 1 (Year Five Begins)
↑
92.0 92.1 92.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 2 (Grave Danger)
↑
93.0 93.1 93.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 3 (Detention Before Extension)
↑
94.0 94.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "The Trials of Sir Cadogan" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 3 of Year 5.
↑
95.0 95.1 95.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 4 (Opposite Day)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 5 (Penny, Portraits, Peace, and Pressure)
↑
97.0 97.1 97.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "FESTIVAL FUN" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 5 of Year 5.
↑
98.0 98.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 6 (The Ghosts of Hogwarts)
↑
99.0 99.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 7 (The Life and Death of Duncan Ashe)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 8 (Trial by Fire)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 9 (Dangerous Friends)
↑
102.0 102.1 102.2 102.3 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "VALENTINE'S DAY BALL" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 9 of Year 5.
↑
103.0 103.1 103.2 103.3 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 10 (Knockturn Alley)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 11 (Mundungus Fletcher)
↑
105.0 105.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 12 (The Vault Portrait)
↑
106.0 106.1 106.2 106.3 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "AN ENCHANTED KISS" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 12 of Year 5.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 13 (Rats and Dogs)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 14 (Mischief Managed)
↑
109.0 109.1 109.2 109.3 109.4 109.5 109.6 109.7 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "THE QUIBBLER: FIGHT FOR THE FRONT PAGE" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 14 of Year 5.
↑
110.0 110.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 15 (Secrets and Lies)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 16 (A Dance With Diego)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 17 (Broken Bonds)
↑
113.0 113.1 113.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 18 (Legilimency and Occlumency)
↑
114.0 114.1 114.2 114.3 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "THE GREAT HOGWARTS COOK-OFF" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 18 of Year 5.
↑
115.0 115.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 19 (The Unforgivable Curses)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 20 (Peter Pettigrew)
↑
117.0 117.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 21 (The Search for Peeves)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 22 (Agent of Chaos)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 23 (Mischief Masterpiece)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 24 (Dark Pranks)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 25 (Creature of Chaos)
↑
122.0 122.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 26 (Chaos Ensues)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 27 (A New Danger)
↑
124.0 124.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 28 (About Merula)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 29 (Final Preparations)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 31 (After the Vault)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 32 (The Trouble With Ben)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Chapter 33 (Bye-Bye Bill)
↑
129.0 129.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 1 (Year Six Begins) - Transfiguration Lesson "Cauldron Cakes to Cabbages"
↑
130.0 130.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 1 (Year Six Begins) - Charms Lesson "Drought Charm"
↑
131.0 131.1 131.2 131.3 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 2 (Curses and Prophecies)
↑
132.0 132.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 2 (Curses and Prophecies) - Herbology Lesson "Fluxweed"
↑
133.0 133.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 2 (Curses and Prophecies) - History of Magic Lesson "History of Wandlore"
↑
134.0 134.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 3 (Mixed Message) - Potions Lesson "Wound Cleaning Potion"
↑
135.0 135.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 3 (Mixed Message) - Care of Magical Creatures Lesson "Glumbumble"
↑
136.0 136.1 In Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 5 (Wherefore Art Thou, Weasleys?), Bill Weasley noted that Jacob's sibling and their class had a useless teacher for that year, with this revealing that Jacob's sibling had proceeded to take N.E.W.T.-level Defence Against the Dark Arts.
↑
137.0 137.1 137.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 25 (Written in the Stars)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 1 (Year Six Begins)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 3 (Mixed Message)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 4 (Friends in Low Places)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 5 (Wherefore Art Thou, Weasleys?)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, "THE DRAGON'S TREASURE" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 5 of Year 6.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 6 (On Jacob's Trail)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, "THE RISE OF A CURSE-BREAKER" Achievement - This event takes place after Chapter 6 of Year 6.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 7 (Niffler Hunting)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 8 (Owl Prowl)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 9 (Artefact Check)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 10 (Cloaks and Conflicts)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 11 (Love in a Bottle)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 12 (Now You See Me)
↑
151.0 151.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 13 (On the Run)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 14 (A New Friend of a Friend)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 15 (In the Deep End)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 16 (The Wizard In White)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 17 (Getting the Message)
↑
156.0 156.1 156.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 18 (Into the Forest)
↑
157.0 157.1 157.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 19 (A Farewell To A Friend)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 21 (Moving Forward)
↑
159.0 159.1 159.2 159.3 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 22 (The Exchange Student)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 23 (A Brilliant Surprise)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 24 (Return to the Forest)
↑
162.0 162.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 26 (Unfinished Business)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 27 (Letting Go)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 28 (Moving On)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 29 (The Whomping Willow Awaits)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 30 (Journey to the Whomping Willow)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 31 (The Polyjuice Plan)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 32 (Quest for Polyjuice)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 33 (Imitation Game)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 34 (Final Preparations)
↑
171.0 171.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 35 (Infiltrating 'R')
↑
172.0 172.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 36 (Search for the Mole)
↑
173.0 173.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 37 (Entering the Black Lake!)
↑
174.0 174.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 38 (Meeting the Merqueen)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 39 (Gather the Merqueen's Tribute)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 40 (A Witch Scorned)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 41 (Assemble the Team)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 43 (What's Next)
↑
179.0 179.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 44 (The Perfect Party)
↑
180.0 180.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 6, Chapter 45 (The Messenger)
↑
181.0 181.1 181.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 1 (Year Seven Begins)
↑
182.0 182.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 3 (On the Case)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 4 (A New Assignment)
↑
184.0 184.1 184.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 5 (The Ministry of Magic)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 5 (The Ministry of Magic) - Assignment "A Hogwarts Life"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 5 (The Ministry of Magic) - Assignment "The Rogue Alchemist"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 6 (A Window of Opportunity)
↑
188.0 188.1 188.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 7 (A New Curse)
↑
189.0 189.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 8 (Back to Hogwarts)
↑
190.0 190.1 190.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 9 (A Beast of a Division)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 10 (The Wampus Cat's Out of the Bag)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 11 (Goodbye, Magical Creatures…)
↑
193.0 193.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 12 (And Hello Magical Accidents and Catastrophes)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 13 (Side Effects May Include Memory Loss)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 14 (The Search for Zenith Xeep)
↑
196.0 196.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 15 (The Counter-Serum)
↑
197.0 197.1 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 16 (Trials and Tribulations)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 7, Chapter 17 (An Infestation of Doxies)
↑ On every loading screen, Jacob's sibling is seen from a backview.
↑ During his tenure as Potions Master, Severus Snape only accepted students who achieved an "Outstanding" on their O.W.L.s into his N.E.W.T.-level Potions classes. Since Jacob's sibling was able to advance to N.E.W.T.-level Potions, they must have canonically achieved an "Outstanding" in their O.W.L. exam.
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, "Valentine's Day" Achievement - Part 2, Side Quest "Heartfelt Invitations"
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Side Quest "The Dark Horse"
Preceded by:
Peter Pettigrew Owner of the Marauder's Map
c. 1989 Succeeded by:
Patricia Rakepick
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Head Boys and Girls
Albus Dumbledore · Tom Riddle · Minerva McGonagall · James Potter · Lily Evans · Bill Weasley · Jacob's sibling · Corey Hayden · Percy Weasley · Teddy Lupin
Prefects
Hannah Abbott · Penelope Clearwater · Angelica Cole · Jane Court · Chester Davies · Cedric Diggory · Albus Dumbledore · Gemma Farley · Jake Flinton · Anthony Goldstein · Hermione Granger · Nicolas Grimmett · Robert Hawking · Robert Hilliard · Remus Lupin · Ernie Macmillan · Draco Malfoy · Lucius Malfoy · Minerva McGonagall · Cyril Meakin · Eric Murley · Pansy Parkinson · Padma Patil · Damian Perriss · Tom Riddle · Felix Rosier · Edmund Spiers · Jonathan Spratt · Kevin Sterndale · Terry Strickland · Marcus Turner · Gabriel Truman · Bill Weasley · Charlie Weasley · Percy Weasley · Ron Weasley · Ryan Westrup · Mervyn Wynch · Unidentified Gryffindor Prefect (I) · Unidentified Gryffindor Prefect (II) · Unidentified Ravenclaw Prefect (I) · Unidentified Ravenclaw Prefect (II) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (I) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (II) · Unidentified Slytherin Prefect (III)
Quidditch positions at Hogwarts
Captains
Filemina Alchin · Astrix Alixan · Orion Amari · Angelina Appleby · Oona Ballington · Concepta Battista · Hugh Biggs · Richard Carter · Angelica Cole · Stuart Craggy · Winky Crockett · Roger Davies · Cedric Diggory · Marcus Flint · Hamish Frater · Stephen Gould · David Hamblin · Natalie Holkham · Jody Jacknife · Angelina Johnson · Jo King · Neil Lament · Steve Laughalot · Graham Montague · Mark Overcliff · Andrew Snowy Owl · Harry Potter · Isobel Ross · Ashley Sanders · Lucinda Talkalot · Urquhart · Emma Vanity · Charlie Weasley · Rufus Winickus · Oliver Wood
Keepers
Kevin Bletchley · Miles Bletchley · Brennan Doyle · Andre Egwu · Herbert Fleet · Geoffrey Hooper · Cormac McLaggen · Grant Page · Ron Weasley · Oliver Wood · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Gryffindor Keeper · Unidentified Slytherin Keeper · Unidentified Keeper (I) · Unidentified Keeper (II)
Chasers
Orion Amari · Tamsin Applebee · Katie Bell · Bradley · Randolph Burrow · Cadwallader · Chambers · Roger Davies · Eekins · Marcus Flint · Rose Granger-Weasley · Jarrett · Angelina Johnson · Heidi Macavoy · Graham Montague · Ethan Parkin · Skye Parkin · James Potter · Malcolm Preece · Adrian Pucey · Demelza Robins · Zacharias Smith · Alicia Spinnet · Jeremy Stretton · Dean Thomas · Urquhart · Vaisey · Cassius Warrington · Ginny Weasley · Blaise Zabini · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Chaser · Unidentified Chaser (II) · Unidentified fourth year Chaser · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (I) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (II) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (III) · Unidentified Gryffindor chaser (IV) · Erika Rath's friend (I)
Beaters
Bean · Lucian Bole · Ritchie Coote · Vincent Crabbe · Peregrine Derrick · Dobbin · Gregory Goyle · Duncan Inglebee · Andrew Kirke · Michael McManus · Maxine O'Flaherty · Jimmy Peakes · Erika Rath · Anthony Rickett · Jason Samuels · Jack Sloper · Fred Weasley · George Weasley · Jacob's sibling · Unidentified Beater · Unidentified Gryffindor beater · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (I) · Unidentified Slytherin Beater (II)
Seekers
Regulus Black · Cho Chang · Cedric Diggory · Andre Egwu · Harper · Terence Higgs · Gilderoy Lockhart · Draco Malfoy · Harry Potter · Summerby · Charlie Weasley · Ginny Weasley · Unidentified Gryffindor seeker · Unidentified Hufflepuff Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Seeker · Unidentified Ravenclaw Substitute Seeker · Unidentified Seeker · Unidentified Seeker (II)
Unknown Positions
Vicky Bishopper · Robin Higgy · R. King · M. G. McGonagall · Katie Rayknolls · Erika Rath's friend (II)
Possible Players
Christian Alexander · Brandon Angel · Jada Angela · Owen Anthony · Tanner Van Burm · Haley Dakota · Jennifer Dawn · Fay Dunbar · Riley Frazer · Ethan Gerard · Ryan Henry · Erica J. · Ella Jo · Timothy Justin · Sage Kelleen · Luisa · Trinity Lynn · Trev Mallory · Alexis Marie · Gianna Grace Marie · Abigail Nicola · Amber Noel · Phelan Noel · Remy Olivier · Jackson Sheppard · Richard Sky · Emily Taylor · Alexander William
Animagi
Before registration system
Falco Aesalon (Falcon) · Cliodna (Sea Bird) · Morgan le Fay (Bird) · Morrigan (Crow)
Registered
Minerva McGonagall (Cat) · Adrian Tutley (Gerbil) · Talbott Winger's mother (White Swan) · Unidentified witch (Black cat) · Five unidentified individuals (Unknown)
Unregistered
Sirius Black (Black dog) · Olivier Kikkert (Frog) · Peter Pettigrew (Rat) · James Potter (Stag) · Rita Skeeter (Beetle) · Talbott Winger (Eagle)
Unknown registry status
Bly (Lemur) · Jacob's sibling (Brown dog, Black and white cat or Eagle) · Lottie Turner's father (Butterfly)
Fictional Animagi
Babbitty Rabbity (Rabbit)