"Is this all real? Or has this been happening inside my head?"
The topic of this article is of a real-life subject that has been mentioned "in-universe" in a canon source. The Harry Potter Wiki is written from the perspective that all information presented in canon is true (e.g., Hogwarts really existed), and, as such, details contained in this article may differ from real world facts.
Leonardo da Vinci
Biographical information
Born
15 April, 1452
Republic of Florence, Italy
Died
2 May, 1519
Touraine, France (aged 67)
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Affiliation
Occupation
Polymath
Artist
Inventor
[Source]
"Paracelsus (1493—1541): Contemporary of Copernicus and Leonardo Da Vinci. A medical genius whose bold theories challanged medieval thought[sic]. Credited with discovering Parseltongue."
— Paracelsus's Chocolate Frog Card[src]
Leonardo da Vinci (15 April, 1452—2 May, 1519) was an Italian polymath who lived during the Renaissance era.[1] He was a contemporary of Paracelsus and Copernicus.[2]
One of his most famous works is his portrait of Mona Lisa, a copy of which hung at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.[2]
Behind the scenes
Da Vinci died 479 years to the day before the Battle of Hogwarts.
In the real-world, Da Vinci is perhaps the most diversely talented person ever to have lived, with interests and pursuits ranging from painting, sculpting, architecture, music, science, mathematics, engineering, invention, anatomy, geology, cartography, botany and writing. He is widely considered to be one of the greatest painters of all time.[1]
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Severus Snape shows a number of images of werewolves during his lecture as a temporary Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. One of these images is a variant of the Vitruvian Man, a famous sketch by Leonardo da Vinci.
Illustrator Jim Kay loves Leonardo da Vinci. When working on Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets: Illustrated Edition, he wondered, "what if Leonardo da Vinchi did a study of the Mandrake, and what would it look like?", and used that as an inspiration when he approached the illustration.[3][4]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Mentioned on a Famous Wizard Card) (Paracelsus)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 Leonardo da Vinci on Wikipedia
↑
2.0 2.1 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) - PC version
↑ Jim Kay Illustrator - Create Expo 2016 (from 23:55 to 24:31)
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets: Illustrated Edition (see this image)