Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Harry Potter: Magic Awakened & Harry Potter: Wizards Unite & Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Editing of this article by newly registered users is currently disabled.
Such users may discuss changes, or request unprotection.
Luna Scamander (née Lovegood)
Biographical information
Born
13 February, 1981[1]
Great Britain[2]
Blood status
Pure-blood or half-blood[3]
Marital status
Married
Nationality
British or Irish[4]
Also known as
Loony Lovegood (by Hogwarts students)[5][6]
Signature
Physical information
Species
Human[7]
Gender
Female[7]
Hair colour
Dirty-blonde[8]
Eye colour
Pale silvery[9][10]
Skin colour
White[11]
Relationship information
Family members
Xenophilius Lovegood (father)
Pandora Lovegood (mother) †
Rolf Scamander (husband)
Lorcan Scamander (son)
Lysander Scamander (son)
Newt Scamander (grandfather-in-law)
Porpentina Scamander (née Goldstein) (grandmother-in-law)
Romances
Rolf Scamander (husband)
Magical characteristics
Wand
Unknown 1st wand
Unknown 2nd wand
Patronus
Hare[12][13]
Affiliation
Occupation
Magizoologist[14][15]
House
Ravenclaw[7]
Loyalty
Lovegood family
Scamander family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Ravenclaw[7]
Dumbledore's Army
Order of the Phoenix
The Quibbler
[Source]
"The girl gave off an aura of distinct dottiness. Perhaps it was the fact that she had stuck her wand behind her left ear for safekeeping, or that she had chosen to wear a necklace of Butterbeer caps, or that she was reading a magazine upside down."
— Luna's unusual disposition[src]
Luna Scamander[16] (née Lovegood) (b. 13 February, 1981)[1] was a witch, the only child and daughter of Xenophilius and Pandora Lovegood. Her mother accidentally died while experimenting with spells when Luna was nine and Luna was raised by her father, editor of the magazine The Quibbler, in a rook-like house near the village of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon.
Luna attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1992-1999 and was sorted into Ravenclaw House. In her fourth year, Luna joined Dumbledore's Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter, of which she became an important member. She participated in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries (1996) and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower (1997), and co-led the reconstituted Dumbledore's Army when Hogwarts fell under the control of Lord Voldemort with Severus Snape as headmaster.
Because of her father's political dissidence at the time, Luna was abducted by Death Eaters to be held ransom, and imprisoned in the dungeons of Malfoy Manor for months. She was freed by Dobby along with several other prisoners in the spring of 1998, and stayed at Shell Cottage until she returned to Hogwarts to participate in the final battle of the Second Wizarding War.
After the war, Luna became a Magizoologist (Studies magical creatures) discovering and classifying many magical species that had never been encountered before. She eventually married Rolf Scamander, the grandson of Newt Scamander, a famed Magizoologist, with whom she had twin sons, Lorcan and Lysander. Luna's good friends Harry and Ginny Potter also named their daughter and third child, Lily Luna Potter, in honour of her.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life (1981–1992)
1.2 Hogwarts years (1992–1998)
1.2.1 Early years
1.2.2 Fourth year
1.2.3 Fifth year
1.2.4 Sixth year
1.2.5 Capture and escape
1.2.6 Battle of Hogwarts
1.3 Later life (1998–2014)
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
3.1 Luna's beliefs
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Possessions
6 Relationships
6.1 Family
6.2 Harry Potter
6.3 Hermione Granger
6.4 Ron Weasley
6.5 Ginny Weasley
6.6 Neville Longbottom
6.7 Dumbledore's Army
6.8 Other friendships
7 Etymology
8 Behind the scenes
8.1 Author's comments
8.2 Luna in the films
8.3 Luna in the games
9 Appearances
10 External links
11 Notes and references
Biography
Early life (1981–1992)
Luna was born on 13 February, 1981, the only child of Xenophilius and Pandora Lovegood. Luna's mother was accidentally killed while experimenting with a spell that she created when Luna was nine years old. Thus, Luna was subsequently raised by her father. As she witnessed her mother's death, she was able to see Thestrals, the magical skeletal black horses that led the Hogwarts carriages, from that point onward.[5]
Hogwarts years (1992–1998)
Early years
"Some people call me 'Loony' Lovegood, actually."
— Hogwarts' students view of Luna[src]
Luna attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1992 and was sorted into Ravenclaw House. One year behind the famous Harry Potter, she noticed Thestrals on her very first day of school, 1 September 1992.
During her years at Hogwarts, she was often teased by many of the other students due to her strange behaviour and odd beliefs. Some time during her early years at Hogwarts students had also taken to calling her "Loony Lovegood". Luna also met and became a friend of Ginny Weasley, who was in the same year as her. In the summer of 1994, she went to the Quidditch World Cup with her father.[17]
In her third year at Hogwarts, she chose Divination as an elective, as in the 1996–1997 school year Professor Trelawney claimed to miss her in class; Luna explained she had Firenze that year.[18] She may also have attended Study of Ancient Runes, as before the 1995–1996 school year, she was seen reading an article written about runes in The Quibbler.[7]
Fourth year
"There's room in this one, there's only Loony Lovegood in here — Don't be silly, she's all right."
— Ginny Weasley introduces Luna to Nevile Longbottom[src]
Luna meeting the trio and Neville Longbottom for the first time
In Luna's fourth year, she met and befriended Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, and Neville Longbottom. She believed Harry's declaration that Lord Voldemort was back. As the year progressed, she was invited to join an underground Defence Against the Dark Arts group called Dumbledore's Army, which was taught and led by Harry Potter. This organisation was to teach practical defence. She eagerly accepted, working hard along with the others and enjoying their company. In an effort to make people believe Harry's story, Hermione arranged an interview for him with Rita Skeeter at the Three Broomsticks — Luna accompanied them so as to persuade her father to publish the interview in The Quibbler. The copy sold out, every Hogwarts student and possibly every professor as well, read the copy because of the Education Decree that stated that it was banned on school grounds.[5]
Luna standing next to Dean Thomas and Cho Chang during a Dumbledore's Army meeting
Near the end of the year, Harry had a vision that his godfather, Sirius Black was being tortured by Lord Voldemort in the Department of Mysteries. Luna and Ginny stood guard while Harry and Hermione snuck into Professor Umbridge's office, to use the fireplace to try to contact Sirius, while Ron attempted to distract Umbridge. However, they were caught, along with Neville Longbottom, by Umbridge and members of the Inquisitorial Squad. They were restrained and gagged, but Luna hardly seemed bothered by this as she was staring, dreamily, through the window as if bored.[5]
Harry and Hermione drew Umbridge away into the Forbidden Forest, and Luna, Ginny, Ron, and Neville managed to escape from the Inquisitorial Squad using a variety of hexes and jinxes. When they all met up again in the forest, Harry planned to go to the Ministry of Magic. Luna reminded Harry about the Thestrals and suggested using them to get to the Ministry. She then mounted her Thestral side-saddle, "as though she did this every day." She also helped Ron, Hermione and Ginny mount their Thestrals, as the animals were invisible to them. The six D.A. members flew to the Ministry and entered the Department of Mysteries, where Luna heard voices coming from behind a Veil, just as Harry did. The group was soon ambushed by twelve Death Eaters.[5]
Moody and Tonks helping Luna during the stand-off in the Death Chamber
Luna participated in the battle that ensued. She protected Ron, who had been hit with a spell that made him highly confused. Luna also attacked a Death Eater who had seized Ginny's ankle with the Reductor Curse, which destroyed a model of the planet Pluto. The model blew up in the Death Eater's face; however, the impact broke Ginny's ankle. Luna guided both the injured Ginny and the Confunded Ron until they met up with Harry and Neville. Luna was one of the last D.A. members to fall, eventually being stunned by a Death Eater and thrown across the room. She regained focus just before the end of the battle and survived relatively unscathed. At the end of the school year, Luna spoke to Harry, who was mourning the murder of his godfather and had found no comfort in talking to ghosts. Luna told him about her mother's death and her belief that she would see her again someday, which was a comforting thought to Harry.[5]
That summer, Luna and her father went to Sweden using the money the Daily Prophet paid them to reprint The Quibbler's interview with Harry to see if they could catch a Crumple-Horned Snorkack.[5]
Fifth year
Harry Potter: "So have you had a good term?"
Luna: "Oh, it's been alright. A bit lonely without the D.A. Ginny's been nice, though. She stopped two boys in our Transfiguration class calling me 'Loony' the other day —"
Harry Potter: "How would you like to come with me to Slughorn's party tonight?"
Luna: "Slughorn’s party? With you?"
Harry Potter: "Yeah, We’re supposed to bring guests, so I thought you might like... I mean... I mean, just as friends, you know. But if you don’t want to..."
Luna: "Oh no, I’d love to go with you as friends! Nobody’s ever asked me to a party before, as a friend! Is that why you dyed your eyebrow, for the party? Should I dye mine too?"
— Discussion of Luna's school term[src]
Luna on the Hogwarts Express talking to Ginny Weasley and Dean Thomas
This year was Luna's O.W.L. year. On her way to Hogwarts in the Hogwarts Express, Luna shared a compartment with Harry Potter and she was accompanied by Neville Longbottom. Luna was holding another edition of the Quibbler, which she told Harry was going strong because of his interview. She then put on a brightly coloured pair of free "Spectrespecs" that were from inside the Quibbler. She was very disappointed to find out that the D.A. would not continue that year. When Romilda Vane asked Harry if he wanted to join her and her friends in another compartment, while treating Luna and Neville with disdain, Harry coldly rebuffed her, stating that they were his friends. Luna correctly observed that people expected Harry to associate with "cooler" people; he replied that she and Neville were cool, and among his closest and most trustworthy friends.[6]
Luna Lovegood at the Slug club party
Towards Christmas, Luna comforted Hermione Granger after Ron Weasley mocked her in Transfiguration and Hermione ran into the girl's bathroom in tears. Luna had found Hermione crying and Harry had been looking for Hermione to return the books she left in Transfiguration class. After Hermione left, Harry asked Luna if she would like to go to Professor Slughorn's Christmas party with him, just as friends, and Luna excitedly accepted his invitation.[6]
Luna as Harry's date at Slughorn's Christmas party
Luna wore a set of spangled silver robes that was attracting a certain amount of giggling from the onlookers, but she otherwise looked quite nice. While there, she conversed with multiple people, and took an interest in Sanguini, a vampire guest. She also made Harry laugh so hard that mead came out of his nose when she discussed the Rotfang Conspiracy after Professor Snape sneered at Harry's ambition to become an Auror. She continued the discussion of the Rotfang Conspiracy with Professor Trelawney, who seemed completely interested. Luna was also present when Draco Malfoy was caught out of bed after hours by Filch and dragged into the party to be punished.[6]
Also that year, Luna would temporarily replace Zacharias Smith as Quidditch commentator for the school. Many found Luna's commentary amusing, as Luna forgot players' names and went off on tangents such as speculating that Smith, who was unable to maintain procession of the Quaffle for longer than a minute, was suffering from "Loser's Lurgy", or saying how a cloud was interestingly shaped. She never actually attempted reported the score, and Professor McGonagall had to report it. However, after Ron heard this commentary, which he found highly amusing, he said "you know, Luna's grown on me," when previously he found her very strange and slightly off-putting.[6]
Luna raising her wand after the death of Albus Dumbledore, along with Ron Weasley and Madam Pomfrey
Luna once gave Harry a note from Albus Dumbledore telling him to come to his office for a private lesson. At the end of the school year, the castle came under attack by Death Eaters, and Luna was one of the few D.A. members to participate in the ensuing Battle of the Astronomy Tower, along with Neville, Ginny, Ron, and Hermione. Harry asked her and Hermione to watch Snape's office, which they did, but Snape told them that Death Eaters were in the castle and that they had to look after Professor Flitwick, whom he claimed had collapsed. After taking Felix Felicis from Harry, the D.A. members were almost untouchable, and all survived the battle unscathed except Neville, who was injured but soon recovered. Luna helped him into his seat when they attended Albus Dumbledore's funeral at the end of the school year.[6]
Sixth year
Harry Potter: "The Lovegoods are quite unusual. He could have easily picked it up somewhere and think it's a cross section of the head of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack or something; I don't know what they are, but apparently he and his daughter go on holiday looking for them; That's her."
Viktor Krum: "Why is she doing that?"
Harry Potter: "Probably trying to get rid of a Wrackspurt."
— Harry trying to explain Luna's strange personality[src]
Luna and her father talking with Harry at Bill and Fleur's wedding
On 1 August, 1997, Luna and her father attended the wedding of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour at the Burrow. Luna was able to instantly recognise Harry Potter, who was disguised as a Weasley cousin by use of Polyjuice Potion, by only his expression. She wore yellow robes, at her father's insistence, and had a sunflower in her hair. Her father believed that wearing sun colours to weddings brought luck. Luna sat at the same table as Harry, Hermione, and Ron. At one point, while under the influence of gnome saliva, Luna started dancing by herself, twirling on the dance floor with her arms raised. This drew attention from a few onlookers, as it was a very bizarre sight.[12]
Death Eaters conduct a raid on the Hogwarts Express in an attempt to capture Harry Potter
That day, the Ministry of Magic was taken over by Voldemort, so it was to a Death Eater-controlled Hogwarts that Luna returned for her sixth year. On 1 September, Death Eaters boarded the train in search of Harry Potter, but were unsuccessful in capturing him because he wasn't on board. Severus Snape had also been appointed headmaster and Death Eaters Alecto and Amycus Carrow professors. Early in the year, Luna, Ginny, and Neville attempted to steal the Sword of Gryffindor from the Headmaster's office, in an effort to help Harry. Snape caught them and sent them into the Forbidden Forest with Rubeus Hagrid as punishment. The three of them revived and led Dumbledore's Army, which tried to sabotage the Death Eaters' control of the school and to help Harry, Ron and Hermione — who were off hunting down Voldemort's Horcruxes — in any way they could.[12]
On her way home over the Christmas holidays, Death Eaters captured Luna because her father had been printing stories in support of Harry.[12]
Capture and escape
Hermione Granger : "Where's Luna? Let's see what she thinks."
Ron Weasley : "Cowardly old wart. Luna's got ten times his guts."
— The trio visit the Lovegood home[src]
Ollivander and Luna held captive in the basement of Malfoy Manor
It was believed that Luna was held captive at Azkaban, though she was actually imprisoned in the basement of Malfoy Manor, along with the famed wandmaker Garrick Ollivander, to whom she proved a great comfort. Her father was so desperate to get her back that he tried to turn Harry, Hermione, and Ron over to the Ministry in exchange for her freedom; the trio escaped, but Hermione ensured that the Death Eaters Xenophilius called glimpsed Harry as they left, so that neither he nor Luna would be punished. The Lovegoods' home was largely destroyed with an erumpent horn, which Xenophilius had believed to be a Crumple-Horned Snorkack's, blew up inside. After the failed ambush Xeno was taken to Azkaban prison for the remainder of the war.[12]
Luna comforting Harry while he holds a deceased Dobby
The prisoners in Malfoy Manor were soon joined by Harry, Ron, Dean Thomas, and Griphook the goblin, while Hermione was tortured for information upstairs by Bellatrix Lestrange. After Luna helped cut the ropes off their new cell-mates, Dobby the house-elf came to free them. He took Luna, Dean and Ollivander to Shell Cottage, the home of Bill and Fleur Weasley, and then returned to assist Harry, Hermione, Ron and Griphook in escaping the Manor. He died in rescuing them.[12]
Up until the Battle of Hogwarts, Luna stayed at the cottage for the remainder of the war, and when Dobby was buried, she closed the house-elf's eyes and provided the eulogy, thanking him for rescuing her. During her stay, she practised using a new wand that Ollivander had made for her. She also seemed to have started a friendship with Dean. It is unknown what Luna did after Harry, Ron and Hermione left Shell Cottage in order to break into Gringotts Wizarding Bank, but she returned to Hogwarts in May when Neville signalled her as to the trio's return. All of Dumbledore's Army was reassembled and prepared to fight.[12]
Battle of Hogwarts
Luna: "That's right. That's right, Harry ... come on, think of something happy ..."
Harry: "Something happy?"
Luna: "We're all still here, we're still fighting. Come on, now ..."
— Luna encouraging Harry to perform the Patronus Charm during the battle[src]
Harry and Luna in Ravenclaw Tower looking for clues
When the trio asked the Ravenclaw D.A. members if they were familiar with an item that had once belonged to their house founder, Luna mentioned the lost diadem. She took Harry to the Ravenclaw common room, answering the riddle, "What came first, the Phoenix or the flame?", with "A circle has no beginning.", in order to gain entrance, in order to show him a replica of the diadem. There, she stunned Alecto Carrow, who was waiting for them per Lord Voldemort's orders. When given the choice, she joined the battle rather than evacuating with the younger students. She stood side-by-side with fellow D.A. members, students, as well as her professors and helped hold back Voldemort's army of Death Eaters and Dark creatures.[12]
It is unknown exactly what Luna did after accompanying Harry to Ravenclaw Tower. However, at one point she, Ernie Macmillan, and Seamus Finnigan helped the trio drive off a group of Dementors that attacked them by casting their Patronuses. Luna encouraged Harry to think of something happy, enabling him to summon his Patronus as well. It was Harry's Patronus that caused the Dementors to finally scatter. Luna and the others slipped back into the battle. She was present when Voldemort reported Harry supposed "death" and when Neville bravely stood up to Voldemort. It can be assumed that she was horrified when Neville was set on fire because of his defiance of the Dark Lord.[12]
Luna: "I'd want some peace and quiet, if it were me."
Harry Potter: "I'd love some."
Luna: "I'll distract them all. Use your cloak. Oooh, look, a Blibbering Humdinger!"
— Luna creates a diversion for Harry after the battle[src]
Luna and Neville Longbottom after the final battle
Near the end of the battle, she fought against Bellatrix Lestrange, alongside Hermione and Ginny. When Bellatrix cast a Killing Curse at Ginny that missed by a mere milometer, Molly Weasley stepped in and killed her. Luna witnessed Harry Potter's final defeat of Lord Voldemort and was among the first to congratulate him. A little while later, she created a diversion so that Harry could slip away from the victory celebrations with Ron and Hermione, and have a little break.[12]
Later life (1998–2014)
"Luna became a very famous wizarding naturalist who discovered and classified many new species of animals (though, alas, she never did find a Crumple-Horned Snorkack and had, finally, to accept that her father might have made that one up)."
— J. K. Rowling regarding Luna's future[src]
After leaving school, Luna became a famous wizarding naturalist, travelling the world in search of strange creatures.[14][15] She discovered and classified many species that had never been encountered before, but was never able to find the Crumple-Horned Snorkack. Thus, she had to come to terms with the fact that there are some things that simply do not exist.[14][15]
Luna married fellow naturalist Rolf Scamander, grandson of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them author Newt Scamander, considerably later in life than Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, who all married and started families in their early-to-mid twenties.[14][19][20] According to Rita Skeeter, Luna wore a wedding dress decorated with rainbows and spangles, and a tiara of silver unicorn horns, which her husband supposedly looked at with a shocked expression. This dress was voted ‘Most Hideous Outfit of the Year' by readers of Rita Skeeter's regular Daily Prophet column. The couple also had twin sons named Lorcan and Lysander.[19][20]
Luna and Rolf attended the 2014 Quidditch World Cup along with the rest of her friends in Dumbledore's Army. She wore robes made of the flags of all sixteen qualifying countries, but her twins were at home with their grandpa and did not come. At the 2014 Quidditch World Cup final, she sat in the VIP boxes with Dumbledore's Army and her husband, where he held her hands, which might have been because he was trying to prevent his wife from putting on one of her famous Special Event Hats.[21]
In 2019, she met at least one of the members of the recently created Statute of Secrecy Task Force, whom she dazzled with her knowledge about the many ways in which magical creatures protect themselves.[22] Luna also instructed them on how she performed the Stamina Charm, which instantly improved their casting both when used on themselves and teammates and allowed them to accompany her in her search for Bowtruckles and Thunderbirds to mentor them how to detect and look after them, improving their focus.
Physical appearance
"She had straggly, waist-length, dirty blonde hair, very pale eyebrows, and protuberant eyes that gave her a permanently surprised look."
— Description of Luna's physical appearance[src]
Luna in her fifth year, age 15
In 1997, sixteen-year-old Luna had waist-length, straggly, dirty blonde hair,[8] protuberant silvery eyes,[9] which often seemed to be dreamily distracted, and faint eyebrows. She had an aura of "distinct dottiness" about her,[7] and was known to put her wand behind her left ear for safekeeping.
Luna had a unique fashion sense that other people usually found bizarre. She often wore odd pieces of jewellery such as a Butterbeer cork necklace and Dirigible plum earrings, and in 1996, a pair of Spectrespecs.[6] Luna also did not wear shoes because students in her house would take her shoes and hide them.[5]
At Hogwarts Quidditch matches, Luna supported Gryffindor against every House except Ravenclaw; to show her support for Gryffindor, she would wear a hat in the shape of a lion head that roars, and to show support for Ravenclaw she would wear an eagle hat with flapping wings.[5] At Professor Slughorn's Christmas party in 1996, she wore spangled silver robes.[6] At Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding, she wore bright yellow robes because she was taught it brought luck to a wedding to wear sun colours and had a sunflower in her hair, as well.[12] She was described as "pretty" on some occasions, despite her odd clothes.
Personality and traits
"Luna was once again demonstrating her usual knack of speaking of uncomfortable truths; he had never met anyone quite like her."
— Luna's unusual character traits[src]
Luna's unusual appearance
Luna was an extremely quirky girl, with a serene disposition and many eccentric beliefs and qualities. She was a complete nonconformist; she lacked self-consciousness and was not afraid to show who she truly was. Luna was also intelligent and unusually perceptive, having been sorted into Ravenclaw[5] "where those of wit and learning will always find their kind." A prime example of Luna’s perceptiveness was when she pointed out the ironically drastic measures taken against Sirius Black when he escaped Azkaban, but when ten Death Eaters (including Bellatrix Lestrange) escaped, barely any measures were taken to recapture them.
Luna introducing Harry to the Thestrals
Although many thought Luna was bizarre, Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Ron Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Ginny Weasley, Dean Thomas and Ollivander eventually became very fond of her.[6]
Luna's demeanour and voice were often distant and dreamy; she would drift away from a conversation she did not find interesting. However, whenever someone made fun of her father or his magazine The Quibbler, the dreamy quality in her voice would vanish and be replaced by one of steel, and she would immediately become very angry. She had an uncanny way of making others uncomfortable by being bluntly honest — Harry Potter described her as having a "knack for embarrassing honesty". She was also completely unflappable and rarely seemed anxious or stressed, even under difficult circumstances such as being a prisoner of Malfoy Manor. Luna was very good at comforting others. She comforted Harry after his godfather's death[5] and Mr Ollivander while they were imprisoned together.[12]
Luna comforting Harry after the death of his godfather
Luna was often the subject of ridicule and had difficulty making friends. Other students gave her the nickname of "Loony Lovegood" and even stole and hid her things. She was unfazed by this, and instead chose to be nonjudgmental and accepting of those around her.[5] She once said that she did not like dancing much, though she did dance some at the wedding of Bill and Fleur, along with her father.
Luna seemed to have enjoyed artistic pursuits in her free time; her house was filled with various things that she painted.[12] She even painted very life-like portraits of her friends that seemed to breathe. Luna was very loyal to the few friends she had — she published Rita Skeeter's interview of Harry Potter on The Quibbler (March issue, 1996)[23] during the latter's fifth year and supported Harry even when he was outlawed by the Ministry of Magic. Ron stated that she certainly has far more courage than her father, who was at the time stressed when under duress. She also displayed admirable bravery during both the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of Hogwarts.
Luna's beliefs
"The Aurors are part of the Rotfang Conspiracy, I thought everyone knew that. They're working from within to bring down the Ministry of Magic using a combination of Dark magic and gum disease."
— Luna after Harry Potter discussed his wish to become an Auror[src]
Luna Lovegood: "I still feel very sad about it sometimes. But I’ve still got Dad. And anyway, it’s not as though I’ll never see Mum again, is it?"
Harry Potter: "Er — isn’t it?"
Luna Lovegood: "Oh, come on. You heard them, just behind the veil, didn’t you?"
Harry Potter: "You mean ..."
Luna Lovegood: "In that room with the archway. They were just lurking out of sight, that’s all. You heard them."
— Luna's perspective on her mother's death, showing her belief in the Afterlife[src]
Luna believed in many things that few others do; given her inclination towards superstition, she would have probably liked Divination. However, as she grew older, she came to accept that some things simply do not exist.[14][15]
Luna Lovegood addresses Dobby as "Sir" at the Malfoy Manor
She seemed to believe everything she read in The Quibbler, mainly because her father wrote it. Some theories she believed in included: Sirius Black being Stubby Boardman, that Rufus Scrimgeour was a vampire, that the Aurors were part of the Rotfang Conspiracy to bring down the Ministry of Magic from within using Dark magic and gum disease, that the Tutshill Tornados were top of the league by a combination of bewitched brooms and torture, that Cornelius Fudge ordered goblins to be made into pies, drowned, or assassinated in other various ways, had an army of Heliopaths, and used the Department of Mysteries to develop terrible poisons to feed to anyone who disagreed with him.
Luna also believed in things that were proven true: Harry's story about Voldemort's return, the voices beyond the veil and the belief that there were people behind it, and that Hufflepuff Chaser Zacharias Smith was suffering from Loser's Lurgy. Loser's Lurgy is not proven to exist, but it was true that when Smith lost in Quidditch he thus acted accordingly.
Some of the animals she believed in were: Moon Frogs, Blibbering Humdingers, Crumple-Horned Snorkacks, Heliopaths, Umgubular Slashkilters, Nargles, Aquavirius Maggots, Wrackspurts, Gulping Plimpies, and Dabberblimps.
She also believed in the fable of Lost Diadem, a crucial Ravenclaw item and a horcrux, which turned out to be a turning point in Harry's battle against Voldemort.[12]
Magical abilities and skills
Luna conjuring a corporeal Patronus in the form of a hare at age fourteen
Luna was shown to be a very talented and powerful witch. At the age of fourteen, she was able to conjure a corporeal Patronus — a very advanced piece of magic and proof that she possessed superior magical ability.[24]
"I’ve never Stunned anyone except in our DA lessons. That was noisier than I thought it would be."
— Luna after having non-verbally stunned Alecto Carrow[src]
Defence Against the Dark Arts: As a committed member of Dumbledore's Army, Luna learned how to cast numerous defensive and offensive spells under the instruction of Harry Potter.[5] Luna demonstrated her excellent defensive abilities by fighting in both the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts against numerous Death Eaters, and surviving all of them.
Duelling: Despite her young age, Luna was a very competent duellist. At the age of fifteen, she participated in and survived the Battle of the Department of Mysteries with no more than a few minor injuries. She also emerged from the Battle of the Astronomy Tower with no major injuries. During the Battle of Hogwarts she, Hermione, and Ginny duelled against the notorious Bellatrix Lestrange and emerged as one of the survivors.
Charms: In her fourth year, Luna learned how to conjure a corporeal Patronus in the form of a hare,[12][25] which is an incredibly advanced, powerful and protective charm, as well as a mark of superior magical ability and talent, showing her proficiency for charm-work. She could also cast simple charms such as the Locking Spell, Reductor Curse, Stunning Spell, Levitation Charm, Revelio Charm and Wand-Lighting Charm successfully without difficulty.
Nonverbal magic: In 1998, Luna wordlessly stunned the Death Eater Alecto Carrow with the Stunning Spell, while inside Ravenclaw Tower.[12] The fact that she could effectively cast it nonverbally is a testament of sorts to her skill, since non-verbal magic is highly difficult, N.E.W.T.-level magic.
Luna and Harry, looking at the Thestrals. Luna Lovegood associated very well with animals
Care of Magical Creatures: She may have studied this subject at Hogwarts. As an adult Luna became a famous Magizoologist, a wizarding naturalist. She discovered and classified many species that had never been encountered before.[14] She was also shown to be very skilled at handling various magical creatures, such as Thestrals, showing her proficiency in Magizoology.
Study of Ancient Runes: In the July/August edition of The Quibbler in 1995, Luna was able to read that issue's segment written in Ancient runes upside down, heavily implying she was able to understand and translate such runes. This also implies that she may have studied the subject at Hogwarts.[7]
Creativity: Luna was a very creative and artistic witch. She invented a lion-shaped hat that, with a tap of a wand, made a realistic roar, and she made a flapping eagle hat of the same kind. She also painted on her bedroom's ceiling the portraits of Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, Ginny Weasley, and Neville Longbottom, woving them with a "chain" consisting of a single word, "friends", "repeated a thousand of times in golden ink",[26] and it is suggested that she painted birds, flowers and insects on the walls of the kitchen of her family house.[27] All of this show her impressive skills as an artist.
Leadership skills: At the age of sixteen, Luna co-led Dumbledore's Army along with her friends, Ginny and Neville. Their leadership was so efficient that she was abducted in an attempt to force the resistance to surrender, though she was ultimately rescued by Harry and Ron.
Possessions
Luna's first wand
Wand: Luna Lovegood's first wand was of unknown length, wood and core material. This wand she used through out her life as a Hogwarts student, until she was captured and her wand confiscated and broken by Death Eaters in the middle of her sixth year. Her second wand was of unknown length, wood, and core material as well. It was made by Garrick Ollivander in the spring of 1998 after his rescue from Malfoy Manor.
Luna wearing her lion hat in support of Gryffindor
Lion hat: Luna created this hat that had the appearance of an ordinary pointed hat topped with a fake stuffed lion. When she tapped the hat with her wand, it let out an extremely realistic roar. She wore it to show her support of Gryffindor whenever they played against the Slytherin Quidditch team.
Eagle hat: Luna wore this hat whenever the Ravenclaw Quidditch team played against the Gryffindor Quidditch team. On top of the hat is what appears to be a living eagle, which flapped its wings.
Dress robes: Luna wore silver dress robes to the Slug Club Christmas party in 1996 when she was taken as a guest by Harry Potter. Luna also owned a pair of yellow dress robes that she wore to the wedding of Bill and Fleur in 1997.
Beetle wing earrings: This was one of the items on her lost possessions list. She, at first, had believed they were stolen and taken away by Nargles, but then later realised it was just her classmates.
Silver star earrings: Luna wore these to the Slug Club Christmas Party in 1996, along with her silver dress robes.
Dirigible plum-shaped earrings: Luna wore these earrings when she expressed her belief in Harry, during 1995. In 1998 Harry noticed a bush covered in exceptionally strange and orange, radish-like fruit called Dirigible plum and notes their striking resemblance to Luna's earrings.
Hare bracelet: This bracelet was owned by Luna. It was made of a golden material and adorned with a small hare penchant, similar to her Patronus.
Patterned shoes: Luna has a pair of patterned Converse sneakers, with what looks likes strawberries on them. They were stolen by some other pupils and hidden, with the rest of her shoes. Luna had to walk around barefoot for most of the Order of the Phoenix because of this.
Purple Quill: Luna owned this quill during the 1995–1996 school year before it was stolen by her classmates. It was produced from a feather of a woodpecker.
Luna's necklace
Butterbeer cork necklace: She often wore it during her school days, to keep away Nargles. Many of the students found this odd.
Beetle ring: Luna wore this ring in 1995 and possibly earlier.
Bubble Bow Booster: Luna owned a kit that was still in its original packaging, but someone took it from her and hid it during the 1995-1996 school year.
Sum-solving ink: This was a type of ink that presumably helped solve mathematical problems. Luna owned a bottle of turquoise sum-solving ink, but someone took it from her and hid it during her fourth year.
Dumbledore's Army coin: Luna owned one of these coins as a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Easy Spells to Fool Muggles: Luna owned a copy of this book by Luca Caruso but, it was stolen from her sometime during the 1995-1996 school year.
Spectrespecs
Spectrespecs: Luna owned and wore a pair of Spectrespecs on the train ride to Hogwarts in 1996. The spectrespecs were large and colourful and were given away free in an issue of The Quibbler in 1996.
Relationships
Family
"They took my Luna because of what I've been writing. They took my Luna and I don't know where she is, what they've done to her. But they might give her back to me if I-If I help; I must save Luna. I cannot lose Luna. You must not leave."
— Xenophilius Lovegood talking to Harry, Ron, and Hermione[src]
Luna's father Xenophilius
With the death of her mother when she was nine years old, Luna was raised solely by her father. Because of this, she was an only child and the two were very close. Xenophilius raised his daughter to share many of his unusual beliefs, and the two enjoyed going on holidays to look for creatures such as Crumple-Horned Snorkacks in Sweden.[5] Luna believed anything her father wrote in The Quibbler magazine, and came to his defence when Hermione Granger claimed the magazine was "rubbish."
When Luna was abducted by Death Eaters in 1997 to force Xenophilius to stop opposing the Voldemort-controlled Ministry of Magic in The Quibbler, her father was beside himself. He was desperate to the point of ceasing his public support of Harry Potter and attempting to turn him, Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley over to the Death Eaters in exchange for Luna's safety. When he failed to do so, Xenophilius was arrested by Selwyn and Travers.[12] Luna would also eventually meet Rolf Scamander, grandson of the famous Newt Scamander and his wife Porpentina. Rolf would become her husband and the union would produce twins, Lorcan and Lysander.
Harry Potter
Luna: "People expect you to have cooler friends than us."
Harry Potter: "You are cool. None of them were at the Ministry. They didn't fight with me."
Luna: "That's a very nice thing to say."
— Luna and Harry discuss their friendship in 1996[src]
Harry Potter, a close friend
When Harry Potter first met Luna in 1995, he found her rather odd, but was grateful that she was one of the few people to believe his story that Lord Voldemort had returned, and sympathised with the loss of her mother and her status as an outcast. After the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, they discussed the death of Sirius Black and the possibility of an afterlife. Harry "found that the terrible weight in his stomach seemed to have lessened slightly."[5]
At the beginning of the next school year, he reacted coldly when Romilda Vane implied that Luna and Neville Longbottom were not worth spending time with; a contrast to the previous year, when he felt slightly embarrassed that his crush Cho Chang saw him in Luna's company. In 1996, Harry asked Luna to attend Professor Slughorn's Christmas party with him as friends after reflecting on how "he had never met anyone quite like her."[6] Harry was one of the portraits of her friends that Luna painted and hung on her bedroom ceiling, to which, upon Harry's discovery in the last book during his Horcrux-seeking journey, made him feel "a great rush of affection" towards her. When Harry took Polyjuice Potion to look like Barny at the Wedding of William Weasley and Fleur Delacour, she recognised him from the expression on his face, hinting again at the closeness of their friendship, as she was not fooled for a minute by his disguise. Shortly before going to sacrifice himself during the Battle of Hogwarts, Harry noted that Luna was among his closest friends, whom he had hoped to see one last time before his death. After Voldemort's defeat at Harry's hands, Luna sensed that Harry wanted to get away from the victory celebrations, and created a distraction so that he could slip away with Ron and Hermione.[12]
Later in life, Harry and Luna would remain close friends. He and Ginny even gave their daughter the middle name "Luna" in honour of her. It's also quite possible that Harry became friends with her husband (Rolf Scamander) and close to her twins, Lorcan and Lysander.
Hermione Granger
"Luna has told me all about you, young lady. You are, I gather, not unintelligent, but painfully limited, narrow, close-minded."
— Xenophilius Lovegood on what Luna has told him about Hermione[src]
Hermione Granger, a close friend
Luna and Hermione Granger did not have an ideal first meeting, as Hermione called The Quibbler "rubbish" without knowing that Luna's father was the editor. She was initially frustrated with Luna's belief in all manner of things without logical grounds or proof. However, she invited Luna to Dumbledore's Army and the two became friends. Hermione's opinion of Luna particularly seemed to improve after Luna proved her loyalty and bravery by participating in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, as she simply accepted that she and Luna had very different world views.[5] The following school year, Luna comforted Hermione over her fight with Ron Weasley when she ended up crying in the bathroom at one point.[6]
At Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding, Hermione tried to kick Ron for teasing Luna, and later defended her again from the insults of the portrait of Phineas Nigellus Black. Hermione was among the portraits Luna painted on her bedroom ceiling, circled by the words "friends." When Luna's father attempted to turn Harry, Ron and Hermione over to Death Eaters in exchange for his daughter's safety in 1998, Hermione engineered their escape so that the Death Eaters saw Harry briefly, thus ensuring that both Luna and her father were not harmed.[12]
Luna and Hermione also fought at the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts, where she, Seamus Finnigan, and Ernie Macmillan saved Hermione, Harry and Ron from Dementors. During the final stage of the battle, Luna, Hermione, and Ginny Weasley fought together against Bellatrix Lestrange, Voldemort's most powerful Death Eater. Hermione and Luna both survived the war, and it can be presumed that the pair remained very good friends during adulthood as well. Luna may be one of the best female friends of Hermione (along with Ginny), as she was only seen with these girls during her school-time at Hogwarts.
Ron Weasley
"He says very funny things sometimes, doesn't he? But he can be a bit unkind. I noticed that last year."
— Luna regarding Ron Weasley in 1996[src]
Ron Weasley, a close friend
At the beginning of their acquaintance, Ron Weasley thought Luna was weird and was not particularly interested in knowing her, even occasionally referring to her as "Loony." Luna, on the other hand, seemed to find Ron very funny but rather insensitive in his relationships at times. Ron eventually grew fonder of Luna, marking her as his good friend, after getting to know her better through Dumbledore's Army and her being one of the only D.A. members to come to the trio's assistance when they tried to save Sirius Black, during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.[5]
He was particularly amused by her Quidditch commentary in 1996[6] and thought highly of her bravery. When she attended his brother Bill's wedding, Ron was further amused by her behaviour and remarked that she gave "good value." However, Ron was still prone to tease Luna and scoff at her unusual beliefs at times.[12] Ron and Luna also fought at the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts, where she, Seamus Finnigan and Ernie Macmillan saved Ron, Harry and Hermione from Dementors. Ron and Luna both survived the war, and the good friends remained in contact in adulthood.
Ginny Weasley
"I do like her, she's very nice."
— Luna Lovegood's opinion of Ginny Weasley[src]
Ginny Weasley, her good friend
Luna and Ginny Weasley were in the same year at Hogwarts, though in different houses; Ginny was in Gryffindor whereas Luna was in Ravenclaw. Ginny seemed to find Luna rather peculiar, as she first referred to Luna as "Loony Lovegood" (though in an affectionate way). The two were very friendly, as Ginny led Harry Potter and Neville Longbottom into her train compartment in 1995, conversing politely with her.[5]
Luna became one of Ginny's best friends through Dumbledore's Army, and Ginny began telling others not to call Luna "Loony," prompting Luna to randomly state during her Quidditch commentary that Ginny was nice and she liked her.[6] Along with Neville, Luna and Ginny led the re-formed Dumbledore's Army while Hogwarts was under Voldemort's control.[12] Ginny was also one of the five portraits — along with Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville — that Luna painted and hung from her bedroom ceiling, with the word "friends" joining them together in gold writing.
Ginny and Harry Potter named their daughter after Luna, considering Luna is a "dear friend." Luna may be one of the best female friends of Ginny (along with Hermione), as she was only seen with these girls during her school-time at Hogwarts. Indeed, Ginny insisted Luna to guide Harry into Ravenclaw Tower over Cho Chang, confidently trusting her to not incite any clash of romance as Cho might have.
Neville Longbottom
Luna Lovegood: "And I don't know who you are."
Neville: "I'm nobody."
Ginny Weasley: "No, you're not. Neville Longbottom — Luna Lovegood..."
— Ginny Weasley introduces Neville and Luna[src]
Neville Longbottom, a very close friend
Luna and Neville Longbottom, a Gryffindor student, first met on the Hogwarts Express, in 1995. Neville found Luna a bit "odd," as she believed in the existence of strange, mythical creatures, had a tendency to read magazines upside down, and wore earrings that appeared to be made of radishes. Luna, like Harry and Neville, had the ability to see Thestrals, as they had all seen someone die. Neville fought alongside Luna at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts.
At some point, they became very close friends. During Luna's sixth year at Hogwarts, she, Neville and Ginny, re-formed and co-led Dumbledore's Army in order to oppose the Carrows.
Dumbledore's Army
"I enjoyed the meetings too,... it was like having friends."
— Luna regarding the D.A.[src]
Dumbledore's Army
After they were both rescued from Malfoy Manor in 1998, Luna and Dean Thomas seemed to grow close while staying at Shell Cottage. Dean still seemed rather bemused at some of the odd things Luna said at times, but did not ridicule her and was seen helping her in the Room of Requirement just before the Battle of Hogwarts.[12] Luna also grew close with many of the other D.A. members, such as Seamus Finnigan and Ernie Macmillan, who she was seen fighting alongside during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Luna had met other members of Dumbledore's Army; there were Padma Patil, Cho Chang, Terry Boot, Anthony Goldstein, Michael Corner, and Marietta Edgecombe from her house (all of them fought at the Battle of Hogwarts, except Marietta), Hannah Abbott, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Susan Bones, and Zacharias Smith from Hufflepuff (it is possible that all of them fought at the Battle of Hogwarts, except Zacharias), and Fred and George Weasley, Angelina Johnson, Katie Bell, Lavender Brown, Alicia Spinnet, Lee Jordan, Parvati Patil, Padma's twin sister and Colin and Dennis Creevey from Gryffindor. Fred, Lavender and Colin were killed at the Battle of Hogwarts. While most of the Other D.A. Members, (with the exception of Marietta) are unknown following the Battle of Hogwarts.
Other friendships
"Thank you so much, Dobby, for rescuing me from that cellar. It's so unfair that you had to die, when you were so good and so brave. I'll always remember what you did for us. I hope you're happy now."
— Luna's eulogy at Dobby's funeral[src]
Dobby, her friend
Luna liked Dobby the house-elf, who came to rescue her from Malfoy Manor. After Dobby was killed by Bellatrix Lestrange, Luna closed his eyes, to make him "seem like he was sleeping." She also said a few words to Dobby during his funeral.
Luna had also met Garrick Ollivander, the wandmaker, at the Malfoy Manor, where they were both imprisoned. She comforted Ollivander, and gave him courage. After they both escaped, Ollivander, who had grown quite fond of Luna, made her a new wand. She also met Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour when she stayed for a few weeks at their house, Shell Cottage. She left Shell Cottage when she, Dean, Bill and Fleur went to fight in the Battle of Hogwarts. Luna thought Rubeus Hagrid was a poor teacher, saying that the students in Ravenclaw thought him to be a bit of a joke, and that she preferred Professor Grubbly-Plank. It is possible this opinion started to change during Umbridge's control of Hogwarts, as they were both against Umbridge and Luna credited Hagrid's teaching of Thestrals, which allowed them to go to the Ministry of Magic when they believed Sirius Black was in danger. During the 1997–1998 school year, Luna and Hagrid both acted in opposition to the Death Eaters' regime at Hogwarts, and Luna, along with Ginny and Neville, once served detention with Hagrid in the Forbidden Forest when they were caught by Snape.
Etymology
Luna means "Moon" in Latin (as well as in Italian, Russian, Spanish, Bulgarian and Romanian). People believed that the moon caused craziness, which may be why she's the way she is. Her nickname, "Loony", also references the moon and its ties with insanity, as it is short for "lunatic".
Lovegood is a real surname and a compound word (Love and Good). Speaking in accordance of her having good feelings for every person she knew, hence Lovegood.
Luna Lovegood is also alliterative, for effect.
Behind the scenes
Luna as she appears on Pottermore
Luna as she appears on Pottermore
Concept art of Luna and her Lionhead hat
Luna Lovegood as she appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Quidditch Fan Luna Lovegood as she appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Luna as she appears on Pottermore
Luna is the only one of Harry's close school friends who is not a fellow Gryffindor.
Harry names his daughter, Lily Luna, after her. Luna is the only person still living to give their name to one of Harry's children.
The Dirigible plum earrings Luna wears in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix were made by Evanna Lynch herself, as was a bracelet she wore (in the shape of Luna's patronus) in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, it is Hermione Granger who introduces Luna to her friends, instead of Ginny Weasley, though the books imply that Hermione had never met Luna before.
Luna was the last person in the books known to commentate a Hogwarts Quidditch match. It is unknown if she commented during the final match during Harry Potter's sixth year.
In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Nymphadora Tonks rescues Harry from the Hogwarts Express after Draco Malfoy uses the Full Body-Bind Curse on him. However, in the film version, Luna is the one who rescues Harry, by using her spectrespecs to see the Wrackspurt buzzing around his head, alerting her to his presence under the cloak.
In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Hermione points out that Harry put something in Ron's drink before the Quidditch match, but in the film version, it is Luna who notices, thinking it is a tonic.
According to the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Luna sleepwalks at night and says because of that she wears shoes to bed.
It was rumoured that Severus Snape was Luna's father and that Luna and Neville Longbottom were going to end up together at the end of Deathly Hallows. Both these rumours were false. However, in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Neville confesses to Harry and Ginny that he is crazy for Luna. They are later seen sitting beside each other in the infirmary. However, Matthew Lewis has said that this is merely a "summer fling" before Neville marries Hannah Abbott and Luna marries Rolf Scamander.[28].
Luna and fellow Dumbledore's Army member, Neville Longbottom, both have compound last names. Love and good for Luna, and long and bottom for Neville.
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Luna seems to have an intimate friendship with Helena Ravenclaw, who knew the location of the diadem of Ravenclaw.
Evanna Lynch, who plays Luna Lovegood in the film series, named her cats after Harry Potter characters: she has a cat named Luna and another named Dumbledore. She also had a cat named Crookshanks, although it is now deceased.
In a deleted scene from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Luna leaves Shell Cottage to return to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Harry tells her that it is not the same, to which Luna replies: "Neither am I."[29] This is a reference to Luna's more mature and realistic worldview following the war.
Scarlett Byrne auditioned to play Luna,[30] as did the famous Irish actress Saoirse Ronan,[31] and The Dark Knight Rises star Juno Temple.[32]
Evanna recently portrayed Luna again for one of Jessie Cave's Pindippy videos.
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Luna did not show the Ravenclaw Common Room but instead shouted at Harry Potter because of his reluctance of listening to her attempts of her approach about finding Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem.
A variant of Luna is available in the "Downloadable Character Pack" DLC for LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7. The variant is called "Luna (Lion Head)" because it portrays Luna wearing her lion hat.
In Part 2 of the final film, Luna is not seen duelling Bellatrix Lestrange alongside Hermione Granger and Ginny Weasley but can be seen duelling two Death Eaters alongside an unidentified student behind Bellatrix during her duel with Molly Weasley.
IGN listed Luna Lovegood as their 12th top Harry Potter character, saying that loony-ness made her a "delight".[33]
Empire Magazine listed Luna as their 10th favourite Harry Potter character in "The 25 Greatest Harry Potter Characters".[34]
In the early drafts, Luna's name was "Lily Moon," until Rowling changed it.
Luna is the only known member of the Lovegood family whose first name is not of Greek origin, rather it is of Latin origin.
Rowling originally intended Luna and Neville to end up together. In an interview with USA Today, she stated that she "started to feel a bit of a pull between them" but added that if they were together by the end it would have "felt too neat". Additionally, she stated that "Neville would always find Luna’s wilder flights of fancy alarming, despite their close friendship."[35]
Evanna Lynch has stated that she considers Luna to be a vegetarian, as it is her belief that Luna would not feel morally right eating animals who have suffered.[36] However, Luna has eaten meat dishes in the books, such as Gulping Plimpy soup.
Rowling has stated that she could imagine Luna as a Wiccan, but felt that the notion of Wicca was too different from wizardry as presented in Harry Potter for them to coexist.[37]
Author's comments
J. K. Rowling has said that the character of Luna took her by surprise, but that she was very fun to write, and contrasted her with Hermione Granger: "She's slightly out of step in many ways but she's the anti-Hermione. Hermione's so logical and inflexible in so many ways and Luna is likely to believe ten impossible things before breakfast."[38] Rowling has named Luna as one of her favourite characters.[39] Together with Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny, Neville, and Draco, Luna is part of the "big seven" characters that Rowling considers to be the most major characters in the series.[40] She was also noted to be very pleased with the casting of Evanna Lynch as Luna as she had had lunch with the actress and said she was "perfect".
J. K. Rowling's favourite character was Luna Lovegood.[41]
Luna in the films
Evanna Lynch as Luna Lovegood
Evanna Lynch plays Luna in the films, and since Evanna is Irish, Luna has a slight touch of an Irish accent. In the films, Harry meets her at the school carriages where she is introduced by Hermione instead of Ginny. Luna's Patronus is revealed to be a Hare, this is later confirmed to be canon in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. Luna is seen barefoot throughout the film because students had stolen her shoes. In addition, Luna seems to have a taste for pudding and introduces Harry to the Thestrals; she offers a young Thestral an apple, which was turned down, before offering it a bit of raw meat with an accepting smile.
She also skipped around the school. Her butterbeer cork necklace has only one cork, which she says is to repel Nargles. She also wears a beetle ring. During the battle at the Ministry, instead of being knocked unconscious, she was hit in the mouth by a Death Eater before using an unusual verbally-incanted version of Levicorpus to hurl her attacker away. When Ginny disintegrates the prophecy shelves with a Reductor Curse, Luna is so distracted by the light that she does not run away, but Neville saves her. She is then taken hostage along with all of Harry's companions but is rescued by the appearance of the Order of the Phoenix members (Sirius, Remus, Tonks, Kingsley, and Mad Eye).
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, she states that she often sleep-walks at night and wears her shoes to bed just in case. Lynch was a huge fan of the series before she was cast.
Luna in the games
Luna as a LEGO minifigure
Luna's role in the game is much the same as her role in the film, though we do not meet her until Harry goes to find the people who signed up for the D.A. to tell them about the Room of Requirement. The Player has to help Luna feed the Thestrals, and then she will appear in the Room of Requirement. Later in the game, Fred and George Weasley send Luna to tell Harry how to swamp the clock tower courtyard, with one of their Portable Swamps. At the end of the game, the player must help Luna find her missing objects, which are: a jumper, a newspaper, a lion mask, a pair of pink shoes, and her purse. Luna is also a playable character in the HBP game. She is a two-player duelling character and is unlocked (with Draco Malfoy) by retrieving two crests.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 318 images related to Luna Lovegood.
Luna Lovegood as a POP! Vinyl
Luna Lovegood (wearing her lion hat) as a POP! Vinyl
Luna Lovegood (wearing Spectrespecs) as a POP! Vinyl
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (Indirectly mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (video game)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (video game)
LEGO Harry Potter
LEGO Harry Potter: Building the Magical World
LEGO Harry Potter: Characters of the Magical World
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
J.K. Rowling: A Year in the Life (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter for Kinect
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Harry Potter: The Character Vault
Harry Potter: The Creature Vault (Mentioned only)
LEGO Dimensions
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Harry Potter: Magic Awakened (Mentioned only)
External links
A replica of Luna's wand (along with a few others) used in the Order of the Phoenix film
A replica of the jewellery worn by Luna in the Order of the Phoenix film
Harry Potter Lexicon page
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 I never get fed up with readers' questions! Luna's birthday is the 13th February. posted by JKR on Twitter on 17 July 2015
↑ World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - The Lovegoods are known to be British.
↑ Both of Luna's parents were magical. Like her father, she did not have to go into hiding when Snatchers started scouring across Great Britain, and unlike Muggle-borns, she returned to Hogwarts for the 1997–1998 school year, meaning she has to be either pure-blood or half-blood.
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
5.00 5.01 5.02 5.03 5.04 5.05 5.06 5.07 5.08 5.09 5.10 5.11 5.12 5.13 5.14 5.15 5.16 5.17 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
↑
6.00 6.01 6.02 6.03 6.04 6.05 6.06 6.07 6.08 6.09 6.10 6.11 6.12 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
↑
7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 10 (Luna Lovegood)
↑
8.0 8.1 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 10 (Luna Lovegood) - "She had straggly, waist-length, dirty-blonde hair, very pale eyebrows, and protuberant eyes that gave her a permanently surprised look."
↑
9.0 9.1 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 10 (Luna Lovegood) - "Luna turned her pale eyes upon him instead."
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 10 (Luna Lovegood) - "He could see the bat-winged horses reflected in her wide, silvery eyes."
↑ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 23 (Malfoy Manor) - "Harry saw Luna, all eyes in her white face..."
↑
12.00 12.01 12.02 12.03 12.04 12.05 12.06 12.07 12.08 12.09 12.10 12.11 12.12 12.13 12.14 12.15 12.16 12.17 12.18 12.19 12.20 12.21 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
↑ "Harry Latino Interview" retrieved from Snitch Seeker
↑
14.0 14.1 14.2 14.3 14.4 14.5 Bloomsbury Live Chat
↑
15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 "Finished ‘Potter'? Rowling tells what happens next" from MSNBC.com
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see this image)
↑ Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Chapter 8 (The Quidditch World Cup)
↑ Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 15 (The Unbreakable Vow)
↑
19.0 19.1 "The Unwritten Story of Harry's Friends and Their Children" from the Times Online
↑
20.0 20.1 J.K. Rowling: A Year in the Life
↑ Pottermore - 2014 Quidditch World Cup final (Archived)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see video)
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 26 (Seen and Unforeseen). Rita Skeeter interviewed Harry at the end of Chapter 25 (The Beetle at Bay).
↑ Writing by J.K. Rowling: "Patronus Charm" at Wizarding World
↑ "Harry Latino Interview" retrieved from Snitch Seeker
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 21 (The Eye of the Snake).
↑ Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 20 (Hagrid's Tale).
↑ http://www.snitchseeker.com/harry-potter-news/audio-harry-potter-cast-and-crew-at-deathly-hallows-part-2-nyc-press-conference-82597/
↑ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KfsZaXNMLjE
↑ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6DwCGd-xpd0
↑ .http://www.irishcentral.com/ent/Saoirse-Ronan-admits-disappointment-over-Harry-Potter-Luna-Lovegood-role-126725153.html
↑ http://nymag.com/daily/entertainment/2011/10/juno_temple.html
↑ IGN,Top 25 Harry Potter Characters
↑ Empire, The 25 Greatest Harry Potter Characters
↑ https://www.pottermore.com/features/things-you-may-not-have-noticed-about-luna-lovegood
↑ Video: Evanna Lynch talks Wizarding World of Harry Potter Gringotts ride, projects, veganism at SnitchSeeker.com
↑ .@GredxForgex Me too! But it's a different concept of magic to the one laid out in the books, so I don't really see how they can co-exist.
↑ 26 June 2003 J.K. Rowling at the Royal Albert Hall
↑ F.A.Q.: Favourite Characters at J. K. Rowling's official site
↑ SnitchSeeker - J.K. Rowling Talks Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
↑ J.K. Rowling 2012 Interview – Harry Potter: Beyond the Page
Preceded by:
Zacharias Smith Hogwarts Quidditch Commentator
1996–? Succeeded by:
Unknown
Dumbledore's Army
Founders
Harry Potter · Hermione Granger · Ronald Weasley
Leaders
Harry Potter · Neville Longbottom · Luna Lovegood · Ginny Weasley
Members
Gryffindor Katie Bell · Lavender Brown · Colin Creevey · Dennis Creevey · Seamus Finnigan · Angelina Johnson · Lee Jordan · Cormac McLaggen · Parvati Patil · Alicia Spinnet · Dean Thomas · Romilda Vane · Fred Weasley · George Weasley · Nigel Wolpert · Unidentified female · Unidentified female (II)
Ravenclaw Terry Boot · Cho Chang · Michael Corner · Marietta Edgecombe · Anthony Goldstein · Padma Patil · Maisy Reynolds · Unidentified male · Unidentified male (II) · Unidentified female
Hufflepuff Hannah Abbott · Susan Bones · Justin Finch-Fletchley · Ernie Macmillan · Zacharias Smith · Leanne · Unidentified female
Unknown House Luca Caruso · Alice Tolipan
Allies and other affiliations
Order of the Phoenix · Hogwarts staff · Augusta Longbottom · Andromeda Tonks · Ted Tonks · Percy Weasley · Oliver Wood · Grawp · Dobby · Winky · Hogwarts house-elves · Forbidden Forest Centaur colony · Hogwarts Hippogriff herd · Hogwarts Ghosts · Hogwarts students · Hogwarts Thestral herd
Order of the Phoenix
Founder:
Albus Dumbledore
Original Order of of the Phoenix:
Aberforth Dumbledore | Alastor Moody | Alice Longbottom | Arabella Figg | Benjy Fenwick | Caradoc Dearborn | Dedalus Diggle | Dorcas Meadowes | Edgar Bones | Elphias Doge | Emmeline Vance | Fabian Prewett | Frank Longbottom | Gideon Prewett | James Potter | Lily Potter | Marlene McKinnon | Mundungus Fletcher | Peter Pettigrew (defected) | Remus Lupin | Rubeus Hagrid | Severus Snape | Sirius Black | Sturgis Podmore
Reconstituted Order of the Phoenix:
Aberforth Dumbledore | Alastor Moody | Arabella Figg | Arthur Weasley | Bill Weasley | Charlie Weasley | Dedalus Diggle | Elphias Doge | Emmeline Vance | Fleur Delacour | Fred Weasley | George Weasley | Harry Potter | Hermione Granger | Hestia Jones | Kingsley Shacklebolt | Minerva McGonagall | Molly Weasley | Mundungus Fletcher | Nymphadora Tonks | Remus Lupin | Ron Weasley | Rubeus Hagrid | Severus Snape | Sirius Black | Sturgis Podmore
Order of the Phoenix allies:
Andromeda Tonks | Augusta Longbottom | Buckbeak | Dobby | Fawkes | Filius Flitwick | Firenze | Garrick Ollivander | Ginny Weasley | Grawp | Helena Ravenclaw | Horace Slughorn | Karkus | Karkus's wife | Kreacher | Lee Jordan | Luna Lovegood | McKinnon family | Mr Westenberg | Mrs Westenberg | Muriel | Nearly-Headless Nick | Neville Longbottom | Oliver Wood | Olympe Maxime | Rita Skeeter | Peeves | Percy Weasley | Pomona Sprout | Poppy Pomfrey | Sybill Trelawney | Ted Tonks | The Fallen Fifty | Westenberg family | Winky | Xenophilius Lovegood
Other affiliations:
Dumbledore's Army | Forbidden Forest Centaur colony | Headless Hunt | Hogwarts Hippogriff herd | Hogwarts house-elves | Hogwarts Ghosts | Hogwarts Staff |
Hogwarts students | Hogwarts Thestral herd | Ministry of Magic | Giant colony (Karkus's control)