Manager at Eeylops Owl Emporium
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Male
Hair colour
Bald
Skin colour
Light
Affiliation
Occupation
Manager at Eeylops Owl Emporium
Loyalty
Eeylops Owl Emporium
Diagon Alley
[Source]
"Harry Potter, yes? I understand you seek an Eagle Owl feather. For three Sickles, I will allows you to go out to the back and fetch one for yourself."
— The manager[src]
This individual was the manager of Eeylops Owl Emporium in Diagon Alley. In 1991-1992 he sold Harry Potter the feather of his own Eagle owl which were sleeping in the owlery-department of the shop.[1] The feather was worth three Sickles. During the Christmas holidays in 1992, he went bird-watching in Wales, leaving his shop closed.[2] He eventually returned some time later however.
Behind the scenes
"You've got your feather, I see. Well done, and thank you very much. Do call again soon, Harry, and give my regards to Hedwig. Cheerio."
— The manager[src]
It is unknown if this individual owned the shop or simply worked as manager there. If the former is correct, his name may be Eeylops.
The fact that he asks Harry to give his regards to Hedwig may imply that either they were good friends, or he was the one who sold Hedwig. It is unknown how he learned of Hedwig's name, given that Harry gave her that name after Hagrid bought her him.
In the Game Boy Color version of the video game adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, this man claims that children not yet in Hogwarts cannot purchase owls at the shop. This cannot be considered canon, however, as it is contradicted by the ability to do so in Pottermore.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (PS1 version, GBC version)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Indirect mention)
Notes and references
↑ Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (PlayStation version only)
↑ Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (PlayStation version only)
London's Wizarding Quarter
England, Great Britain
Carkitt Market - Diagon Alley - Horizont Alley - Knockturn Alley
Diagon Alley
Shops
2nd Hand Brooms · Amanuensis Quills · Broomstix · Broom Brakes Service · Broom Shop · Cauldron Workshop · Cranville Quincey's Magical Junkshop · Fine Enchanting Cauldrons · Floo-Pow · Florist's stall · Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop · J. Pippin's Potions · Jimmy Kiddell's Wonderful Wands · The Junk Shop · Madam Primpernelle's Beautifying Potions · Mr Mulpepper's Apothecary · Obscurus Books · Ollivanders · Rosa Lee Teabag · Scribbulus Writing Implements · Second-Hand Bookshop · Second-Hand Robes · Slug & Jiggers Apothecary · Sugarplum's Sweets Shop · Surgical and Dental Operator · Twilfitt and Tattings · Wand Showroom · Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes · Whizz Hard Books
Other services
Brews and Stews · Daily Prophet's main office · Diagon Alley stalls · GalloLoans · Gringotts Wizarding Bank · The Ministry Press · Peter Boat · TerrorTours
Locations
1 Diagon Alley · 18a Diagon Alley · 129b Diagon Alley · 275 Diagon Alley · 343 Diagon Alley South · 59 Diagon Alley · 92 Diagon Alley · 93 Diagon Alley · 94 Diagon Alley
Known residents and shop employees
Archibald Bennett · Broom Shop shopkeeper · Clutterbuck Crispe · Cranville Quincey · Daily Prophet personnel · Edwin Avarus · Fred Weasley (deceased) · Garrick Ollivander · George Weasley · Healer · Jimmy Kiddell · J. Pippin · Madam Primpernelle · Manager of Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop · Mulpepper · Podric Batworthy · Ronald Weasley · Shimmy Hardoteer · Sugarplum · Unidentified florist in Diagon Alley · Verity · Villanelle