Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Murphy McNully
Biographical information
Born
Between 1 September 1970 and 31 August 1974 (most likely)[1]
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood[2]
Nationality
British or Irish[3]
Physical information
Species
Human[4]
Gender
Male[4]
Hair colour
Blond[4]
Eye colour
Grey[4]
Skin colour
Light[4]
Relationship information
Family members
Mother
Grandmother
Affiliation
Loyalty
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry[4]
Sphinx Club[5]
[Source]
"Murphy McNully, by the way. The wizarding world's next best-ever professional Quidditch commentator. That's the plan, at least. Judging by the competition, I'd put my odds of going pro at 3-1."
— Murphy McNully introduces himself to Jacob's sibling[src]
Murphy McNully was a wizard who attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1980s and was a Quidditch Commentator.[4] He was the inventor of the Quidditch strategy Thimblerig Shuffle.
Contents
1 Biography
2 Personality and traits
3 Magical abilities and skills
4 Possessions
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Notes and references
Biography
Murphy commentating during a game of Quidditch
When Murphy was seven years old, his mother taught him the Blackboard Writing Spell.[6] Murphy had been subscribed to Which Broomstick? ever since he could read.[7]
Murphy McNully was a student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1980s. He was physically disabled and immobile, and thus required the use of Wheelchair for locomotion. He was a Quidditch fanatic who would go so far as to commentate on Hogwarts' Quidditch friendlies, practise matches that required no commentator.[4]
Personality and traits
Murphy loved Quidditch, and had always wanted to be an announcer. He also immensely enjoyed talking. Due to his using a wheelchair, when meeting new people, he tried to display every aspect of his personality so they would not remember him as just "the wizard in the wheelchair". Murphy had a very charming personality, and was a skilled strategist.
His favourite food was sandwiches.[citation needed]
Magical abilities and skills
Charms: Murphy was taught the Blackboard writing spell by his mother, and was proficient with the casting of this enchantment himself.
Quidditch Knowledge: Murphy was knowledgeable about Quidditch and Quidditch strategies. He was an entertaining Quidditch commentator, and was also an avid user of statistics, at the time when the sports only had the basics.
Wizard's Chess: Murphy was quite skilled at wizard's chess, frequently beating Jacob's sibling at it.[citation needed]
Possessions
Wand: Murphy owned a wand, which was of an unknown length, wood and core, which he presumably purchased before his first year at Hogwarts.
Wheelchair: Being physically disabled and unable to walk, Murphy owned and operated a wheelchair for movement.
Kneazle: Murphy owned a pet Kneazle named Kneil.
Behind the scenes
"Murphy McNully, McNully to his friends, aims to be the greatest Quidditch commentor in history. His mind for statistics and keen understanding of strategy are invaluable to any novice Quidditch player."
— Murphy's character description[src]
He is in whichever house the player chose for Jacob's sibling.
His year is not shown in the friends section, similar to Skye Parkin and Orion Amari.
His favourite colour is either green, blue, red or yellow, depending on which house he is sorted into.
During the team meeting before the second house cup final, he will say "Don't think about where the Quaffle is, think about where it will be." This is very similar to the advice that Walter Gretzky famously gave his son, Canadian ice hockey icon Wayne Gretzky, about skating towards where the hockey puck will be, while training his son to play the game as a boy. Wayne would later credit his great success as an adult to such insights.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 18 images related to Murphy McNully.
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑ As shown in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, Side Quest "Festival Fun", Murphy McNully was still attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1988–1989 school year, meaning he most likely started at Hogwarts in 1982 or later. He was already attending Hogwarts in the 1985–1986 school year (when Quidditch Season 1 takes place).
↑ His mother was a witch, meaning he was not a Muggle-born.
↑ "World Exclusive Interview with J K Rowling," South West News Service, 8 July 2000 - "Hogwarts just serves Britain and Ireland."
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Quidditch Season 1
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, "A DRAGON'S QUEST" Achievement
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Quidditch Season 1, Chapter 4 (Strategic Moves)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 2, Quidditch Season 1, Chapter 9 (Searching for a Comet)
This article about a specific character is a stub. You can help by expanding it.