Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
For gameplay-specific information, please see the relevant article on the Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Wiki!
Penelope Fawley (née Padgett)
Biographical information
Born
c. 1982[1]
Died
After 2015 (possibly)[2]
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood[3]
Marital status
Married
Nationality
British
Also known as
Nel
Title(s)
Prefect[4]
Lead Auror
Physical information
Species
Human
Gender
Female
Relationship information
Family members
Father
Mother
Grim Fawley (husband)
Lucretia Fawley (mother-in-law) †
Marshall Fawley (father-in-law) †
Addison Fawley (son)
Melody Fawley (daughter)
Magical characteristics
Wand
Willow, 12½ inches, dragon heartstring
Affiliation
Occupation
Auror
House
Slytherin
Loyalty
Padgett family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Slytherin
British Ministry of Magic
Department of Magical Law Enforcement
Auror Office
Fawley family
[Source]
Penelope "Nel" Fawley (née Padgett; b. circa 1982[1]) was a British witch, the wife of Grim Fawley, and an Auror working for the Department of Magical Law Enforcement in the British Ministry of Magic. In 2015[5], she went missing and the subsequent investigation overseen by the council of which Gareth Greengrass was a member, was called off. This decision may have played a role in Grim unleashing the Calamity through the use of the Foundables Spell.[6]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Career and marriage
2 Possessions
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Penelope Padgett was born somewhere in the British Isles into the wizarding Padgett family around 1982.[1]
She began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry sometime in the early-to-mid 1990s and was sorted into Slytherin. In her fifth year, she became a prefect.[4]
During the Second Wizarding War, her parents were both outspoken supporters of Lord Voldemort and his Magic is Might Campaign; following the war, her mother was imprisoned in Azkaban for involving herself in the conflict. Before she was imprisoned, the last thing her mother gave her was a Comet 290 broomstick, which Penelope regarded as the only thing she had left to remember her by.[4]
Career and marriage
After her graduation, Penelope joined the Department of Magical Law Enforcement at the British Ministry of Magic.[4] She was described as being ambitious, a characteristic trait amongst Slytherins.[7] However, people were suspicious of her due to her parents' past support of Lord Voldemort. In particular, Gethsemane Prickle sent a memo to Harry Potter, the Head of the Auror Office, warning him about Penelope and predicting that she was going to be trouble.[4]
Penelope was given a desk job that left her in frequent contact with Grim Fawley, a research assistant in the department. Eventually, the two fell in love and started dating in 2005. Fearing that discovery of their workplace romance would result in Grim being transferred out of the department, the two decided to keep their relationship secret.[7][8] As a result, the two would often communicate using coded messages.[4]
Penelope excelled in her work and her accomplishments within the Department resulted in her becoming an Auror within two years of having joined the department. She was described by Harry Potter as "one of the finest candidates" he had ever seen. During her career, Penelope was noted to not have been a rule follower, instead preferring to do things her own way. However, this view was common among Aurors and her work was otherwise considered outstanding. She was also noted for being very secretive.[4]
Penelope became friends with Harry and the two frequently talked about quidditch in the office, with her in particular being a huge fan of the Pride of Portree. During field work, Penelope favoured travelling with her broom instead of Apparating, which she attributed to her motion sickness.[4]
Eventually, after having dated for a year, Penelope and Grim revealed their relationship. Although it was considered a bit scandalous, it was ultimately permitted. The two got married in June, 2006, on a Sunday in West Bromwich.[7] At some point over the next nine years, before Penelope's disappearance in 2015, she and Grim would have twins[9] Addison[10] and Melody[11]; Melody would inherit Penelope’s nose and, despite her words to the contrary, Addison would inherit Penelope’s stubbornness.
Possessions
Comet 290: She owned this broomstick before she was married as it was inscribed with her maiden name Padgett.[4]
Slytherin Prefect badge: She owned a tarnished Slytherin Prefect badge, as she was herself appointed as a Prefect during her later Hogwarts years.[4]
Slytherin scarf: She also owned a scarf of the Slytherin colours.[12]
Wand: Willow, 12½ inches, Dragon Heartstring core, with a large spindling crack down the middle.[13]
Appearances
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (First mentioned)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 When talking about Grim and Penelope in Wizards Unite, Constance says that Penelope was "a few years" older than Grim. Grim was born in late 1984 or early to mid 1985.
↑ Wizards Unite reveals she went missing in 2015, but it is unknown as to whether she died or not and is only being classified as missing instead of deceased. At least one person, Gareth Greengrass, believed she is dead.
↑ Both her parents were wizards, so she was not Muggle-born.
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see this)
↑ Wizards Unite, set in 2018, states Penelope has been missing for "three years"
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see video)
↑
7.0 7.1 7.2 Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see this)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see this)
↑ In Wizards Unite, Constance says "and then they had two children", with the phrasing implying they're twins.
↑ (see this image)
↑ A part of Grim’s journal reveals the names of his two children.
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see website)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (see website)
Department of Magical Law Enforcement employees
Heads of Department
Justus Pilliwickle · Torquil Travers · Bartemius Crouch Senior · Amelia Bones · Pius Thicknesse · Corban Yaxley · Harry Potter
Auror Office
Heads: Theseus Scamander · Rufus Scrimgeour · Gawain Robards · Harry Potter
Mordecai Berrycloth · John Dawlish · Penelope Fawley · Dorian Fungbury · Timothy Hale · Alice Longbottom · Frank Longbottom · Neville Longbottom · Alastor Moody · Riya Patel · Proudfoot · Savage · Kingsley Shacklebolt · Nymphadora Tonks · Ronald Weasley · Williamson · Unidentified Aurors · Unidentified male Auror at Hogwarts · 3 Unidentified Aurors at Hogwarts · Director of the Investigation Department No. 61042
Improper Use of Magic Office
Heads: Travers · Dolores Umbridge
Mafalda Hopkirk · Honoria's fiancé · Mafalda Hopkirk's Ministerial Superior · Rufus Fudge · Orabella Nuttley · Chester Davies
Other Personnel
Leta Lestrange · Minerva McGonagall · Elphinstone Urquart · Alastor Gumboil · Arnold Peasegood · Arthur Weasley · Perkins · Cerberus Langarm · Hermione Granger · Bob Ogden · Tulip Karasu's mother · Tulip Karasu's father · Dempster Wiggleswade · Amelia Bones's assistant · Arthur Weasley's ten subordinates · Unidentified Hit Wizard · Unidentified Wizengamot clerk
This article about a specific character is a stub. You can help by expanding it.