Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in: Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells & Harry Potter: Wizards Unite & Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Rosmerta
Biographical information
Born
Before 1959[1]
Nationality
British[2]
Title(s)
Madam[2]
Physical information
Species
Human[2]
Gender
Female[2]
Hair colour
Blonde[3]
Eye colour
Green[3]
Skin colour
White[3]
Magical characteristics
Boggart
Lord Voldemort[4]
Patronus
Non-corporeal[4][5]
Affiliation
Occupation
Landlady of the Three Broomsticks Inn[2]
Loyalty
Three Broomsticks Inn[2]
Draco Malfoy (while under the Imperius Curse)[6][7]
[Source]
"Landlady of the Three Broomsticks, famed for her good looks and mulled mead."
— Description[src]
Madam Rosmerta (fl. 1950–1997) was a British witch who was the landlady of the Three Broomsticks pub in the village of Hogsmeade.[2] Rosmerta was put under the Imperius Curse, cast by Draco Malfoy in 1997. After being placed under the curse, she helped Malfoy against her will to smuggle cursed items into Hogwarts Castle.[6][7] It is likely she later redeemed herself by fighting in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Bartender at The Three Broomsticks
1.1.1 1986–1987 school year
1.1.2 1987–1988 school year
1.1.3 1993–1994 school year
1.1.4 1996–1997 school year
1.1.5 1998
1.1.6 2010s
2 Physical appearance
3 Magical abilities and skills
4 Etymology
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Notes and references
Biography
Bartender at The Three Broomsticks
"Naturally. Never saw one without the other, did you? The number of times I had them in here — ooh, they used to make me laugh. Quite the double act, Sirius Black and James Potter!"
— Rosmerta mentions that she was a barmaid [src]
Rosmerta was older than the Marauders, as she was the barmaid whilst they were all still at school. Rosmerta lived in and was the barmaid of the Three Broomsticks during the First Wizarding War; she was a listener of gossip and believed the rumours that Sirius Black had turned his friends, the Potter family, over to Lord Voldemort to be true when news broke out they had been murdered and that the war was over.[2] It remains unknown how she reacted when the true story was told to her, (that it was Peter Pettigrew who betrayed the Potters) or, indeed, if she ever found out.
She continued to tend bar during the 1980s.
1986–1987 school year
Madam Rosmerta meeting Jacob's sibling for the first time
During 1986, Rosmerta was introduced to Jacob's sibling by Rubeus Hagrid in the Three Broomsticks during the student's first outing to Hogsmeade. They requested for information regarding their brother and his search for the Cursed Vaults from Rosmerta, in which they learnt from her recount that Jacob had Transfigured a secret notebook of his into a Black Quill, the whereabouts of which were unknown then. Jacob's sibling beseeched Rosmerta to find it for them, promising to do anything for her in return, an offer she promptly accepted. While she was preoccupied in searching for the Black Quill in the pub's back room, Jacob's sibling proceeded to help her out by serving her customers their orders, an activity they found moderatly easy, with the exception of them having nearly dropped a mug of Butterbeer that was Tranfigured into a mongoose by the timely intervention of a helpful wizard. Acknowledging that her search for the desired quill would take longer, Rosmerta requested that Jacob's sibling help her concoct an extra-sweet brew of Butterbeer by fetching its various ingredients from the Hogwarts Castle for her. By the time they had managed to fulfil her request and returned back to the Three Broomsticks, Rosmerta had managed to successfully retrieve the Black Quill, which she then gave to Jacob's sibling.[8]
1987–1988 school year
Rosmerta was interrogated by Patricia Rakepick regarding the possible whereabouts of Jacob's notebook and map. She claimed to know nothing and threatened to inform some of her best customers from the Department of Magical Law Enforcement regarding Rakepick's behaviour, which made the Curse-Breaker back down quickly.[9]
1993–1994 school year
Rosmerta, Cornelius Fudge, and Minerva McGonagall meeting outside her pub
Rosmerta talking with Fudge and McGonagall
In 1993, Madam Rosmerta was angered when Dementors were in Hogsmeade to catch Sirius Black because their presence was scaring away many of her customers, not least when they searched her pub twice. She hosted an informal meeting between Minerva McGonagall, Cornelius Fudge, Filius Flitwick, and Rubeus Hagrid discussing Sirius Black and his friends. They discussed how Sirius Black had been named Harry Potter's godfather before the Potters' demise.[2]
1996–1997 school year
"There's one thing you should know before the Ministry gets here, though. Madam Rosmerta's under the Imperius Curse, she was helping Malfoy and the Death Eaters, that's how the necklace and the poisoned mead —"
— Harry regarding Rosmerta being under the Imperius Curse[src]
In 1997, it emerged that Rosmerta had become an unwilling agent of the Death Eaters. In order to fulfil his mission to assassinate Albus Dumbledore, Draco Malfoy had managed to place Rosmerta under the Imperius Curse. He used her to pass on a cursed Opal Necklace to Hogwarts student Katie Bell, who accidentally touched the necklace and was subjected to the very harmful curse intended for the Headmaster.[6] Rosmerta also poisoned mead that was intended to be given to Dumbledore through Horace Slughorn in the guise as a Christmas present, but it was unintentionally drunk by Ron Weasley, who was saved by Harry Potter; Harry had shoved a Bezoar down Ron's throat to save his life.[10] Malfoy communicated with Rosmerta through fake galleons, copying the idea from 'the Mudblood Granger' and Dumbledore's Army.[7]
Argus Filch did not suspect anything provided by Rosmerta, hence allowing the poisoned mead to sneak past security.[7]
After Harry and Dumbledore had been to the cave to retrieve a locket, they believed to be one of Voldemort's Horcruxes, they apparated to Hogsmeade, where Madam Rosmerta alerted them to the presence of the Dark Mark above the school and gave them brooms on which they could travel rapidly back to Hogwarts, where Draco's plan could be brought to completion.[7] Harry Potter eventually cleared her name as he felt that that investigation on Albus Dumbledore's death may link to her.[11]
1998
"They heard uproar from the distant boundary of the school as what sounded like hundreds of people came swarming over the out-of-sight walls and pelted toward the castle, uttering loud war cries."
— Reinforcements arriving during the Battle of Hogwarts[src]
It is unknown if Rosmerta was part of the reinforcements from Hogsmeade during the Battle of Hogwarts or if she participated in the war. This battle resulted in the end of the Second Wizarding War.
2010s
During the Calamity, Rosmerta instructed a panel of Magizoologists on a basic Revive Charm.[12]
Physical appearance
Hermione Granger: "Ron, what are you looking at?"
Ron Weasley: "Nothing"
Hermione Granger: "I expect 'nothing's' in the back getting more firewhiskey"
— Ron trying to catch Madam Rosmerta's eye[src]
Rosmerta was an attractive woman, described as "a curvy sort of woman with a pretty face". On one occasion, she was seen wearing glittery open-toed high-heels. Several Hogwarts pupils, including Ron Weasley, have fancied her.[2][6]
Magical abilities and skills
Charms: Rosmerta was capable of conjuring a non-corporeal Patronus,[4][5] a highly advanced form of magic.
Etymology
Rosmerta was the Romano-Celtic goddess of fertility and abundance, known as the "Great Provider". In Latin, it means "good purveyor" or "great provider".
Behind the scenes
Madam Rosmerta was portrayed by British actress Julie Christie in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. She only appears twice in the film; once at the Three Broomsticks and again, on close observation, when Harry and Hermione go back in time. Her role was reduced to this film alone as she did not appear in any of the subsequent film adaptations of the novels.
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 18 images related to Rosmerta.
Madam Rosmerta in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (Flashback on Disc 2)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
LEGO Harry Potter
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells
Notes and references
↑ Rosmerta was at least working at the Three Broomsticks during the Marauders' time at Hogwarts; however, it is not known when she started working there. The most that can be said with certainty is that she is older than they are.
↑
2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Chapter 10 (The Marauder's Map)
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 12 (Working with Snape)
↑
4.0 4.1 4.2 LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
↑
5.0 5.1 LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
↑
6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 12 (Silver and Opals)
↑
7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 27 (The Lightning-Struck Tower)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 3, Chapter 3 (Three Broomsticks)
↑ Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 4, Chapter 12 (Working with Snape)
↑ Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 18 (Birthday Surprises)
↑ Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 29 (The Phoenix Lament)
↑ Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Hogsmeade
Scotland, Great Britain
Founder: Hengist of Woodcroft
Shops
Baby Witch · Brews and Stews Café · Ceridwen's Cauldrons · Dervish and Banges · Dogweed and Deathcap · Dominic Maestro's · Gladrags Wizardwear · Hog's Head Inn · Honeydukes · J. Pippin's Potions · Madam Puddifoot's Tea Shop · The Magic Neep · McBloom & McMuck · McHavelock's Wizarding Headgear · Ollivanders · Pedrus Pridgeon · Rosa Lee Teabag · Scribbulus Writing Implements · Scrivenshaft's Quill Shop · Spintwitches · Three Broomsticks Inn · Tomes and Scrolls · Zonko's Joke Shop
Other locations
Hogsmeade Station · Hogsmeade Post Office · Hairdressing salon · Merge Publications · Office 323 · Shrieking Shack · Vladimir Plot Plumbing Supplies · Wizarding Wireless Network Headquarters
Known residents and shop employees
Madam Rosmerta · Aberforth Dumbledore · Madam Puddifoot · Ambrosius Flume · Ambrosius Flume's wife · Dominic Maestro · Unidentified Ollivander's associate · Employee of the Hogsmeade Post Office · Archibald Bennett · Three Broomsticks waiter · Horace · J. Pippin · McHavelock · Scrivenshaft · Vladimir Plot · Zonko · Bilton Bilmes · Gwendoline Babcocke · Gwendoline Babcocke's mother · Silvanus Kettleburn · Lucy Lanyon · Betty Huxley · Agnes Nutt · Wally Wimbles · Mopsy Fleabert