Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information about Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore. As such, spoilers will be present within the article.
Theseus Scamander
Biographical information
Born
Between 25 February 1888 and 23 February 1889[1][2]
Blood status
Pure-blood or Half-blood[3]
Marital status
Unmarried
Nationality
English[4]
Signature
Physical information
Species
Human[5]
Gender
Male[5]
Hair colour
Brown
Skin colour
Light
Relationship information
Family members
Mrs Scamander (mother)
Newt Scamander (brother)
Tina Scamander (sister-in-law)
Leta Lestrange (fiancée) †
Niece or nephew[6]
Magical characteristics
Wand
Unknown length, wood and core
Affiliation
Occupation
Head of the Auror Office
House
Hufflepuff[7]
Loyalty
Scamander family
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Hufflepuff
British Ministry of Magic
Department of Magical Law Enforcement
Auror Department
[Source]
Theseus Scamander (born c. 1888)[1] was an English wizard and Auror.[8][9][10] He was the son of Mrs Scamander and the older brother of Newt Scamander.[8][11] Theseus was regarded as a war hero after his involvement in the First World War, and was promoted to Head Auror during the early days of the global wizarding war, with Theseus greatly contributing to the effort against Gellert Grindelwald.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Hogwarts years
1.3 Early career
1.4 First World War
1.5 Global wizarding war
1.5.1 Hunt for Gellert Grindelwald
1.5.2 Engagement
1.5.3 Newt Scamander's appealing
1.5.4 Questioning of Albus Dumbledore
1.5.5 French Ministry of Magic
1.5.6 Grindelwald's rally
1.5.7 Back to Hogwarts
2 Personality and traits
3 Magical abilities and skills
4 Possessions
5 Relationships
5.1 Newt Scamander
5.2 Leta Lestrange
5.3 Torquil Travers
5.4 Albus Dumbledore
6 Etymology
7 Behind the scenes
8 Appearances
9 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
Theseus Scamander was born into the wizarding Scamander family sometime around 1888,[1] and had at least one sibling, a younger brother, Newton,[8] better known as "Newt". Despite their mother's hobby of breeding fancy Hippogriffs, Theseus evidently never shared his brother's interest in the field of Magizoology, and regarded caring of magical creatures as a fine way of passing the time, but did not take it seriously as a professional pursuit. This was an opinion he apparently had in common with his mother, as neither of them seemed to be very impressed with his younger brother's career.
At some point, he bought or inherited a wand.
Hogwarts years
During his formative years, he attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, having been Sorted into Hufflepuff,[7] where he excelled in his studies and proved himself an academically gifted student. Proficient in both the theoretical aspects of his lessons and savvy in regard to their practical application, he would finish his education earning at least five N.E.W.T.s, with top grades of either 'Outstanding' or 'Exceeds Expectations'.[12]
Early career
At some point after he finished his magical education, Theseus would join the British Ministry of Magic, and complete a stringent series of character and aptitude tests to become a fully-fledged applicant for individuals wishing to work at the Auror Office in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, which he would eventually do after he successfully satisfied the requirements necessary to join their ranks by passing their notoriously demanding training programme.
First World War
As an official Dark Wizard catcher, Theseus Scamander was not one to sit idly by while others were in danger. As such, when the Muggle world entered a period marked by a massive, military conflict that became known as the First World War, he would go on to be counted among the "thousands" who defied the then Minister for Magic Archer Evermonde's emergency legislation that forbade the British wizarding community to get involved in the hostilities.[13] While not decisive, Theseus' participation in the wizarding effort of the war was nevertheless a distinguished one; earning him widespread recognition as a very powerful and commanding British Auror, as well as a war hero for his life-saving actions.
Global wizarding war
A considerably hard-working and conscientious man, Theseus would continue to work for the Ministry following his return to Britain and rose to become a very high-ranking and well-respected Auror indeed, to the point where, when a Dark Wizard by the name of Gellert Grindelwald became active in the wizarding world and whose charismatic idealism had begun to muster support for the cause of bringing about the annulment of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy and subsequently earned him the discontent of both Theseus's own superiors as well as the International Confederation of Wizards, Theseus was assigned by the Ministry to leave for Europe to help track him down. A notable achievement, considering the fact that the whole department wanted the case. At the time, he had no knowledge of his brother's whereabouts, whose work for the Dragon Research and Restraint Bureau involved extensive, research-related travelling, Theseus excitedly wrote him an owl and told him of his mission; wishing him well "wherever [he was]" on "whatever beastly quests [he was] undertaking!".[14] While his efforts to "ferret out" the aspiring revolutionary ultimately proved unsuccessful,[15] he was nevertheless eventually promoted to the Head of the Auror Office.
Hunt for Gellert Grindelwald
As the revolutionary endeavours of Grindelwald grew ever fiercer and the number of individuals who joined his cause began to increase steadily, with both Grindelwald and his supporters having began launching several devastating attacks across Europe, aimed at exposing wizardkind, and provoke war with the Muggle world, any help Theseus could have provided in opposing him were most likely halted by people in authority such as Minister Hector Fawley, who did not take the threat Grindelwald and his legion of fanatics seriously, seen as he was still working nationally by the mid-1920s.
In 1926, Theseus corresponded with the man whom he assumed to be Percival Graves, the Director of Magical Security of MACUSA, regarding recent events in New York,[9][10] unaware that the man with whom he communicated was actually Gellert Grindelwald himself, in disguise.
Engagement
Theseus with Newt, Leta and Bunty during launch at Flourish and Blotts
By 1927, Leta Lestrange, a friend of Newt's from their school years, had become his fiancée. Theseus was going to marry her on 6 June, 1928, and Newt was supposed to be their best man. On 19 March, 1927[16] Theseus, alongside Leta and his brother's assistant, Bunty, participated in the Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them launch party at Flourish and Blotts in Diagon Alley.
Newt Scamander's appealing
Theseus with Travers, Spielman and Guzman during Newt's appealing
Three months after Gellert Grindelwald's escape, Newt Scamander was appealing to revoke his travel ban for the fifth time. Theseus was included in his commission along with Torquil Travers, Rudolph Spielman and Arnold Guzman. Before entering the room, he warned Newton to behave more decently than usual. During appealing, he revealed to Newt that Credence Barebone, the Obscurial, survived and had been sighted in Europe. They offered to restore Newt's travel rights if he will join the Ministry as an Auror and will kill Barebone. When Newt refused and walked out of the meeting, Gunnar Grimmson, the bounty hunter, had been hired to assasinate Credence. Theseus was infuriated about that and approached Newt outside the commission, telling him that eventually he would be forced to choose a side. Newt refused to do this, but Theseus embraced him to say goodbye and whispered to him that he was watched by the Ministry.
Questioning of Albus Dumbledore
Theseus during questioning of Albus Dumbledore
Shortly after, Newt was sent to Paris to save Credence from Grindelwald by Albus Dumbledore. When rumours of Newt's potential travel to France reached the British Ministry of Magic, Theseus along with Travers, Leta and a few Aurors were sent to Hogwarts Castle to question Dumbledore. Angered Travers cuffed Dumbledore into Admonitors and forbaded him from ever teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts again, after Dumbledore refused to fight Grindelwald for him. Leaving the classroom, Theseus was warned by Dumbledore, that if he ever trusted him, he should not let Travers to send himself at Grindelwald's rally.
French Ministry of Magic
Theseus kissing Leta and promissing to be careful
During a visit in the French Ministry of Magic, Theseus participated in the deliberations during which he learned that Grindelwald was convening a rally for his supporters. After providing this information to Leta, he kissed her. The woman asked her fiancé and told him to promise that he would be careful, which Scamander agreed, and then told her that rumours were circulating about that Credence might be her missing brother. In reply, Leta said that her brother died. Theseus agreed with her, but also noticed that the documents would confirm it, because they never lied and left her.
Theseus also hesitantly listened to Torquil Travers, whom he had been at odds with for a long time. Travers ordered him to arrest everyone at Grindelwald's rally. Scamander tried to protest, because too strong a reaction could bring the opposite effect, but his supervisor stated that it was an order and therefore not subject to discussion.
Theseus trying to attack Newt and Tina
Seconds after exchanging sentences with Travers, Theseus covered Tina Goldstein and Newt, which used a Polyjuice potion with Theseus' hair to break into the Ministry headquarters without being wanted. Furious Theseus pursued them and caught up with Newt, on whose sight had been triggered by an alarm, because polyjuice stopped working. Older brother tried to stop them by casting a spell, but Tina blasted him into a wall and tied him up.
Grindelwald's rally
Theseus during Grindelwald's rally
At Cimetière du Père-Lachaise Theseus ordered the Aurors to break up Grindelwald's rally. However, he defied Travers by saying that listening to Grindelwald was legal. Grindelwald recognised the group and portrayed them as violent and those who imprisoned and tortured him in New York in search of the truth. Then, one witch attacked an auror named Cassius Bell, but he killed her in self-defence, which caused Grindelwald to sent his followers to spread the word and began the fight. Theseus was the one who gave the word to engage Grindelwald in combat, provoking him into conjuring a black ring of fire. He listened to him threaten them into joining him or accepting death as the alternative. After virtually everyone had made their decision, Theseus joining Newt in a double spell projected to deflect Grindelwald's fire. Leta interfered and sadly expressed her love for Theseus and Newt. She proceeded to distract their enemy by stunning Vinda Rosier, horrifying Theseus as Grindelwald turned and directed the fire into her flesh while he could only frantically throw up protective barriers. Leta shouted at him to leave in her final moments, but he refused to leave without her, refusing to accept that she was sacrificing herself for their safety. Newt grabbed his hand, forcing him to Disapparate by his side.
Theseus fighting with the flames
Grindelwald Disapparated, but he unleashed deadly fire outside the mausoleum before he fled the scene. Theseus, Newt, Tina, Yusuf Kama, Nagini and Jacob Kowalski were close to death, but Nicolas Flamel arrived and instructed Scamander brothers, Porpentina and Kama to use the General Counter-Spell. Theseus listened to his advice and stuck his wand into the ground and helped defeat Grindelwald's fire. Theseus, horrified at the loss of his fiancee, started crying, and Newt, also saddened, hugged his older brother.[17]
Back to Hogwarts
Theseus and others at Hogwarts
After the battle, Theseus, travelled along with Newt and other survivors back to Hogwarts, picking up on the way Travers and Spielman. He forbade Travers to meddle in the conversation between Newt and Dumbledore, and also got rid of the admonitors, which Travers had conjured up earlier, while allowing Newt to deliver Grindelwald's pendant to Dumbledore.
Personality and traits
Theseus was frequently described as being "very powerful" and was noted to be "commanding".[9][10] Given his participation in the First World War, and his description as a hero, he appeared also to be extremely brave, and was therefore quite respected among International Confederation of Wizards officials. Theseus is highly intelligent, as he was academically gifted in both the theoretical aspects of his lessons, as well as their practical applications. In stark contrast to his anti-social younger brother Newt Scamander, Theseus is rather confident and outgoing.
Despite this bossy and prim reputation, Theseus is a well-meaning, hard-working, noble, and responsible man, in true Hufflepuff fashion not allowing his status as a war hero to make him arrogant or conceited, and seemingly attempting to act as a good role model to his younger brother Newt Scamander. Theseus loved Newt, and attempted to give him useful advice to keep Newt out of political trouble, and patiently put up with the bitterness with which Newt treated him, simply wanting the best for his brother. Theseus is also quite affectionate, with him notably hugging Newt (though the latter was initially uncomfortable with this), and kissing his beloved fiancee Leta Lestrange. Moreover, Theseus seems to despise violence, since he admitted to Newt that he hated the idea of Gunnar Grimmson going after Credence for the British Ministry. Theseus's nobleness is also shown when he acted calm and quiet while visiting Albus Dumbledore, as opposed to the arrogance and disdain with which with his boss Torquil Travers carried himself, with Theseus also taking to heart Dumbledore's advice about not showing counter-productive violence against Gellert Grindelwald's army during the Paris rally. However, Theseus was tragically unable to stop one of his own Auror subordinates from making that mistake at the rally.
Also, after fellow Auror Tina Goldstein tied Theseus up, demanding that he "control his temper", Theseus was noble again by not resenting her for that later, understanding Tina's loyalty to Newt. Overall, Theseus lived up to his brave reputation, and had an incorruptible moral code, as he was able to resist Gellert Grindelwald's persuasive speech, and even had the bravery to subsequently duel Grindelwald, despite knowing that he was no match for the fearsome Dark Wizard. Theseus also dearly loved his late fiancée Leta Lestrange, not caring about her negative reputation, and her selfless death devastated Theseus, but left him more determined than ever to help stop Grindelwald and end the global wizarding war, so he readily frees Dumbledore of the latter's Admonitors.
Magical abilities and skills
Magical mastery: Theseus Scamander was described as "very powerful", and, as a Hogwarts student, he excelled in his studies enough to meet the qualifications for Auror training, becoming an Auror, and eventually getting promoted to the position of Head Auror. While Theseus alone was admittedly no match for the extraordinarily powerful Gellert Grindelwald, who was possibly the most powerful Dark Wizard to ever live, Department of Magical Law Enforcement Head Torquil Travers trusted the combined might of Theseus and the latter's subordinate Aurors with the task of bringing Grindelwald in after Albus Dumbledore refused to, with even Dumbledore seemingly believing that Theseus could survive a fight with Grindelwald if aided by his allies. Indeed, Theseus proved powerful and skilled enough to be able to survive such a fight, alongside Newt and Leta, and was moreover able to aid his brother, future sister-in-law, Yusuf, and Nicolas Flamel in saving Paris from Grindelwald's black fire.
Auror skills: Theseus Scamander, as the Head Auror, was an exceptionally skilled Auror, more than likely completing the Concealment and Disguise, as well as the Stealth and Tracking portions of Auror training with excellence. These skills greatly contributed to Theseus's outstanding performance during the First World War, and to him gaining the respected status of "war hero", to the point that Hector Podmore, Momolu Wotorson, Rudolph Spielman, Arnold Guzman and even the abrasive Torquil Travers respected him, while Gellert Grindelwald kept up a correspondence with Theseus while posing as Percival Graves. During the global wizarding war, Theseus was trusted by the British Ministry of Magic with the mission to participate in the international wizardhunt for Gellert Grindelwald (which proved unsuccessful), and later with the international mission to help the French Ministry of Magic to track down the Obscurial Credence Barebone, with Theseus's Auror team ultimately succeeding at finding Credence in the Lestrange family Mausoleum. Theseus was also observant enough to quickly notice his brother Newt and American Auror Tina Goldstein infiltrating the French Ministry, despite their efforts to be discreet.
Duelling: As the Head Auror, Theseus was exceptionally skilled in martial magic, surviving magical involvement in the First World War and being considered a "war hero" for his efforts, and later actively participated in the global wizarding war against Gellert Grindelwald. Theseus was notably only overpowered by fellow Auror Tina Goldstein due to being caught off-guard by her, so he later greatly contributed to stopping Grindelwald's Paris rally, defeating many of Grindelwald's allies. Although Theseus was no match for the incredibly powerful Dark Wizard alone, while aided by the combined efforts of his brother Newt and girlfriend Leta as well as future sister-in-law Tina, he could still stand his ground against Grindelwald for a time.
Defence Against the Dark Arts: As the Head Auror, Theseus would have likely received either an "Outstanding" or "Exceeds Expectations" in his O.W.L. and N.E.W.T. for this subject.[12] Theseus's skills are evident in his victory in many duels against formidable dark wizards, such as Grindelwald's allies, and even surviving a brief duel against the incredibly powerful Grindelwald himself, alongside Newt and Leta, being able to hold off Grindelwald's extremely powerful black flames long enough to be saved by Leta, and even pushing the flames back when Grindelwald was not focusing it on him (due to being distracted by Leta). Theseus also was able to easily follow Nicolas Flamel's instructions in casting the General Counter-Spell to contain and extinguish the violent black flames.
Charms: Theseus was shown to be capable with charms, as he was particularly apt in the use of defensive charms and counter-spells, as shown by his ability cast a Shield Charm strong enough to protect himself for a prolonged period of time against Grindelwald's lethal black fire. He also later proving proficient enough in the General Counter-Spell, as he was able to use it to a large enough scale alongside Nicolas Flamel, Newt, Tina and Yusuf in containing and extinguishing Grindelwald's fire.
Apparition: Theseus, like most accomplished adult wizards, could Apparate at will.
Leadership skills: Theseus, as the Head Auror in the British Ministry of Magic, had exceptional leadership skills, with him very effectively commanding a team of no less than 50 Aurors at Grindelwald's rally, and even Albus Dumbledore seemed to respect the Auror's leadership, since he took the time to give the younger man some useful advice. Tragically, however, Theseus was unable to stop one of his Auror subordinates from using the Killing Curse at the rally.
Indomitable willpower: Theseus possessed immense willpower and bravery, being a respected hero of the First World War, and joining in on the subsequent global wizarding war as the Head Auror without hesitation. As such, despite recognising Gellert Grindelwald as a "charismatic blighter", and despite seeing horrifying visions of a future Second World War, Theseus's moral code was incorruptible, and therefore, he resisted Grindelwald's persuasive speech, and continued valiantly fighting to break up the rally, whilst at the same time rejecting Travers' oppressive orders to arrest anyone simply present.
Possessions
Wand: Theseus's wand had a tortoiseshell handle, to represent his elegance and for a man who would do rather well for himself in his future. His wand wood, core and length were all unknown.
Relationships
Newt Scamander
Theseus Scamander with his brother Newt Scamander and Fiancee Leta Lestrange
While not very impressed with his brother's career, it would still appear that they got along reasonably well, given the light-hearted tone of the letter he sent his brother. Even so, he still had certain high expectations of his brother, demanding that Newt pick a side in the war against Grindelwald when the news reached them that the dark wizard had escaped MACUSA custody, and resumed his rise to dominance over the wizarding world. Even though Newt is distant and bitter towards Theseus, due to his older brother's engagement to his ex-girlfriend Leta Lestrange, Theseus harbours no ill will towards his brother, and has a tendency to hug Newt, much to Newt's discomfort. However, after Leta sacrifices her life to save the both of them, a devastated Newt is the one to initiate a hug with Theseus, mending their relationship, and assuring his brother that he has finally chosen a side in the global wizarding war.
Leta Lestrange
Theseus Scamander with his fiancee Leta Lestrange
While it is unknown what kind of relationship they might have had during their younger years, if any, Theseus and Leta would eventually get better acquainted at the Ministry of Magic, where he worked as the Head Auror, and she as the assistant to the Head of Magical Law Enforcement, Torquil Travers, resulting in the gradual burgeoning of a mutual love between them, and an engagement. Leta's death left Theseus absolutely devastated, and he readily agreed to free Albus Dumbledore of the Admonitors, so that the professor could more actively help in the war against Grindelwald.
Torquil Travers
Torcquil Travers, his boss
Despite Theseus' boss Travers usually being an arrogant and abrasive, he respected Theseus enough to promote him to the position of Head Auror following the First World War, and trusted Theseus and the latter's Auror subordinates with the extremely dangerous mission of going after Grindelwald in Paris, in cooperation with the French Ministry of Magic.
Albus Dumbledore
Albus Dumbledore, his former professor and friend
Dumbledore was Theseus' former professor, and he respected the young Head Auror significantly, giving Theseus some useful advice on how to act while infiltrating Grindelwald's Paris rally. Theseus reciprocated the respect, as he took Dumbledore's advice to heart, and later returned to Hogwarts to free his former professor from Ministry Admonitors.
Etymology
Theseus (Θησεύς) was the mythical king of Athens who is most known as having undergone the Labyrinth where he slew the Minotaur. Like his mythological namesake, he laboured for the common good and won wide renown (as both an Auror and a war hero), battling against moral evil (comparable to the monsters of mythological renown).
Though it may seem Newt's brother Theseus has no connection with beasts on the outside, according to Euripides, Hippolytus (mythological Theseus's son with Hippolyta, Queen of the Amazons) was a loyal follower of the goddess Artemis, who besides being more known as the goddess of the hunt, also functions (among other things) as "mistress of the animals" (in her capacity of her title as "Potnia Theron") & "nurse of youths" (epithet "Kourotrophos"); "Artemis" being one of Newt's middle names. Alternatively, Theseus's connection to beasts may be more direct. While Newt, nicknamed for a creature, seeks to protect animals, Theseus, with the name of a man who killed such a creature, the Minotaur, may have an opposing perspective.
Behind the scenes
Theseus is portrayed by Callum Turner in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.
Callum Turner is actually younger than Eddie Redmayne, who plays Newt Scamander, despite being his older brother in-universe.
An unknown actor voiced Theseus Scamander reading his letter in the opening of the Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them level pack for LEGO Dimensions.
In a interview posted to YouTube by SnitchSeeker.com on 25 September 2018, Callum Turner stated that Theseus is in Hufflepuff house.[7]
Appearances
The Harry Potter Wiki has 58 images related to Theseus Scamander.
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them: The Original Screenplay (First mentioned)
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned only)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay (First appearance)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore[18]
LEGO Dimensions (Voice only)
The Archive of Magic: The Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 "Eight years Newt's senior [...]" Newt was born 1897. See Image from Lights, Camera, Magic!: The Making of Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
↑ His brother's birthday was on 24 February, so he could not have been born before late February 1888, or else he would be 9 years older.
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them only identifies Newt's mother as a witch, so his father's blood status is unknown.
↑ Inside the Magic: The Making of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them - "Hailing from England" in the Newt Scamander section.
↑
5.0 5.1 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay
↑ Since Rolf Scamander kept Newt's family name, it can be presumed that he is the son of a son of Newt's. If he were the son of a daughter of Newt's, he would likely bear whichever his father's surname was, and not Scamander. However, Newt could have had a daughter who kept his family name.
↑
7.0 7.1 7.2 SnitchSeeker: "Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald cast on the final trailer and major spoilers"
↑
8.0 8.1 8.2 Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them: The Original Screenplay, Scene 60
↑
9.0 9.1 9.2 "‘Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them’: 43 Things to Know about the New Wizarding World Story" from Collider
↑
10.0 10.1 10.2 "Orphans, Aurors & War Vets: we meet the 'Fantastic Beasts' film cast on set (Part 2)" from SnitchSeeker.com
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them
↑
12.0 12.1 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 29 (Careers Advice) - Minerva McGonagall establishes that Aurors require a minimum of five N.E.W.T.s, and nothing under 'Exceeds Expectations' in order to be eligible for training to join the Auror Office.
↑ Writing by J.K. Rowling: "Ministers for Magic" at Wizarding World
↑ (see this image)
↑ Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2017 edition) - Newt confirms in the foreword that he was the first person ever to capture Grindelwald.
↑ (see this image)
↑ https://www.pottermore.com/news/fantastic-beasts-film-title-revealed-the-crimes-of-grindelwald
↑ https://www.snitchseeker.com/harry-potter-news/fantastic-beasts-3-begins-filming-in-6-weeks-confirms-theseus-actor-callum-turner-113904/
Preceded by:
Unknown Head of the Auror Office
c. 1927 Succeeded by:
Unknown, eventually Rufus Scrimgeour
Department of Magical Law Enforcement employees
Heads of Department
Justus Pilliwickle · Torquil Travers · Bartemius Crouch Senior · Amelia Bones · Pius Thicknesse · Corban Yaxley · Harry Potter
Auror Office
Heads: Theseus Scamander · Rufus Scrimgeour · Gawain Robards · Harry Potter
Mordecai Berrycloth · John Dawlish · Penelope Fawley · Dorian Fungbury · Timothy Hale · Alice Longbottom · Frank Longbottom · Neville Longbottom · Alastor Moody · Riya Patel · Proudfoot · Savage · Kingsley Shacklebolt · Nymphadora Tonks · Ronald Weasley · Williamson · Unidentified Aurors · Unidentified male Auror at Hogwarts · 3 Unidentified Aurors at Hogwarts · Director of the Investigation Department No. 61042
Improper Use of Magic Office
Heads: Travers · Dolores Umbridge
Mafalda Hopkirk · Honoria's fiancé · Mafalda Hopkirk's Ministerial Superior · Rufus Fudge · Orabella Nuttley · Chester Davies
Other Personnel
Leta Lestrange · Minerva McGonagall · Elphinstone Urquart · Alastor Gumboil · Arnold Peasegood · Arthur Weasley · Perkins · Cerberus Langarm · Hermione Granger · Bob Ogden · Tulip Karasu's mother · Tulip Karasu's father · Dempster Wiggleswade · Amelia Bones's assistant · Arthur Weasley's ten subordinates · Unidentified Hit Wizard · Unidentified Wizengamot clerk