Warning!
At least some content in this article is derived from information featured in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery. Spoilers will be present within the article.
Tofty
Biographical information
Born
Before 1972[1]
Nationality
British[2]
Title(s)
Professor[2]
Physical information
Species
Human[2]
Gender
Male[2]
Hair colour
Grey, balding[2]
Eye colour
Brown[3]
Skin colour
White[3]
Affiliation
Occupation
Examiner for the Wizarding Examinations Authority[2]
Loyalty
Wizarding Examinations Authority[2]
[Source]
"Galloping gargoyles! Not so much as a warning! Outrageous behaviour!"
— Professor Tofty, raging about the Auror attack on Minerva McGonagall[src]
Professor Tofty was a wizard who worked for the Wizarding Examinations Authority in the capacity of an examiner.[2]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 1988-1989 school year
1.2 1995-1996 school year
2 Physical appearance
3 Personality and traits
4 Magical abilities and skills
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Notes and references
Biography
1988-1989 school year
Tofty: "I should have known better than to think I could keep secrets from you, Albus. Very well… The Ministry is troubled by the situation concerning the Cursed Vaults. Particularly given reports that a group of Dark Wizards may be actively pursuing them. Due to [Jacob's sibling]'s personal involvement with the Cursed Vaults… and the concern that [they] may be in some way connected to these Dark Wizards, the Ministry thought it prudent to…"
Albus Dumbledore: "Use your status as an Examiner to spy on a student?"
Tofty: "I didn't want to take the assignment, Albus, but they insisted this was an opportunity they couldn't ignore. I hope you don't think too badly of me. Especially considering I know you tasked Argus Filch with monitoring me. Surely you know how it is."
— Professor Tofty and Albus Dumbledore[src]
During his annual trip to Hogwarts Castle to supervise the Ordinary Wizarding Level exams of the 1988–1989 school year, Tofty was burdened by a secret mission he had reluctantly agreed to carry out. Concerned that Jacob's sibling, whose brother had been expelled from school for endangering its residents while searching for and trying to uncover the secrets of the fabled Cursed Vaults, was somehow associated with a group of dark wizards who also sought the same thing, the higher-ups at the Ministry charged him with keeping a discreet eye on Jacob's sibling and, if possible, learn whatever this individual knew of the group.[3]
Suspecting the Ministry of Magic might try something like this, Albus Dumbledore instructed the Caretaker of the day, Argus Filch, to watch the visiting examiner closely and report back to him. Upon examining the fifth-years, Professor Tofty was particularly impressed with Jacob's sibling and their abilities. He inadvertently exposed himself to the Hogwarts Headmaster as a Ministry spy by being uncharacteristically forthcoming towards the target of his assignment, and even openly inquired about the vaults. Confronted with this by Dumbledore, Tofty admitted the truth, and confessed his shame and guilt over it, and, unaware of the fact that Jacob's sibling was hiding in Dumbledore's study, left the room after he assured Dumbledore that he had accepted the mission under protest. Confronted again by the student themselves, Professor Tofty apologised and told them that he had been sincere in his desire to see them work hard and reach their full potential, and, as he departed Hogwarts, assured them that he would personally vouch for them at the Ministry should anyone there get unwarranted suspicions regarding their allegiance or intentions.[3]
1995-1996 school year
During the Ordinary Wizarding Level exams of the 1995-1996 school year, Tofty examined Harry Potter in his O.W.L. practical examination on Charms, Defence Against the Dark Arts, and Astronomy, as well as his History of Magic theory essay. At the close of the Defence Against the Dark Arts examination, Professor Tofty asked Harry Potter to cast a Patronus for an extra point. He was good friends with Tiberius Ogden, who told him that Harry was able to conjure a corporeal Patronus.[2]
When Dolores Umbridge attempted a sneak attack on Rubeus Hagrid during the Astronomy exam, Professor Tofty tried to persuade the observing students to focus on their examination instead of the attack. However, when the Aurors launched four Stunning Spells at Professor McGonagall, causing her to collapse, Tofty also forgot the examination and shouted in anger and shock at such a disgraceful assault.[2]
After Harry's vision of Sirius Black being tortured by Voldemort in the Department of Mysteries (actually a fake vision planted there by Voldemort to lure Harry there to retrieve a prophecy) during the History of Magic exam, Tofty escorted Harry out of the hall and told him to either return to finish what he could of the examination or visit Madam Pomfrey to get a glass of water.[2]
Physical appearance
Tofty was an old, grey and balding wizard with a quavery old voice and pince-nez glasses.[2]
Personality and traits
He had a kindly manner that could put a nervous student at ease, smiling at Harry, telling him there was no need to be nervous and expressing pleasure at Harry's excellent performance of Defence Against the Dark Arts. He may have also had a bit of a rebellious streak, as he delighted in asking Harry to cast a Patronus during an examination that was being held under the watchful eye of Hogwarts High Inquisitor Professor Umbridge. When students became distracted by the commotion during the Astronomy exam, he initially attempted to keep them on task, though his protestations had little effect as events escalated. Tofty showed great shock and concern when Professor McGonagall was attacked and later showed concern for Harry following his collapse during the History of Magic exam.[2] By his own admission, he was a "history buff".[3]
Magical abilities and skills
Magical knowledge: As an examiner, Tofty was knowledgeable on all common fields of magic, and was also familiar with magical equipment that can be used to cheat.[2][3]
History of Magic: Tofty informed students that was a "history buff", meaning he was highly knowledgeable of magical history.[3]
Behind the scenes
Professor Tofty featured in an early draft of the script for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, where he is incorrectly referred to as female.[4]
In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Professor Tofty is noted to wear pince-nez glasses; in Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery he instead wears half-rim glasses, temples clearly visible.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Cut from final edit)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
Notes and references
↑ Professor Tofty already worked for the Wizarding Examinations Authority in 1989.
↑
2.00 2.01 2.02 2.03 2.04 2.05 2.06 2.07 2.08 2.09 2.10 2.11 2.12 2.13 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Chapter 31 (O.W.L.s)
↑
3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Year 5, "Ordinary Wizarding Levels" Achievement
↑ HARRY POTTER AND THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX - 2nd draft
Ministry of Magic Departments
Unknown Levels
Archives · Committee on Experimental Charms · Department of Magical Artefacts · Department of Magical Education · Exploding Bonbons Disposal Unit · Magical Maintenance Department · Office for the Removal of Curses, Jinxes, and Hexes · Public Information Services · Remittance Office · Research Committee · Very Important Members of Section M.I. Trx. · Wizarding Examinations Authority
Committee on Experimental Charms Personnel
Balfour Blane · Gilbert Wimple
Department of Magical Artefacts Personnel
Sage Bragnam (Head Curator)
Magical Maintenance Department Personnel
Reginald Cattermole · Orford Umbridge · Lift attendant · Man
Research Committee Personnel
Phoebus Penrose (Head)
Wizarding Examinations Authority Personnel
Griselda Marchbanks · Professor Tofty · Unidentified plump little witch examiner · Unidentified examiner with a wart on his nose