"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Unidentified Auror
Biographical information
Nationality
British[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Hair colour
Brown[1]
Skin colour
White[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Auror[1]
Loyalty
British Ministry of Magic[1]
Department of Magical Law Enforcement[1]
Auror Department[1]
[Source]
This male Auror was stationed at Hogwarts Castle's Entrance Hall during June of 1997.
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
During the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, when the Death Eaters burst through the Entrance Hall in their escape, this Auror was blown away by Severus Snape with a spell when his back was turned. He apparently had not noticed the Death Eaters in the Castle.[1]
Behind the scenes
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, this Auror is the only resistance Hogwarts offers to the rampaging group of Death Eaters who had moments earlier witnessed the murder of Albus Dumbledore.
He may also be either Proudfoot or Savage, considering that Tonks was stationed in Hogsmeade alongside them and was called up to defend Hogwarts.
Considering how quickly he was defeated when caught off guard by Severus Snape, it is also possible that this is a recast of John Dawlish.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (First appearance)
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) Chapter 27
Department of Magical Law Enforcement employees
Heads of Department
Justus Pilliwickle · Torquil Travers · Bartemius Crouch Senior · Amelia Bones · Pius Thicknesse · Corban Yaxley · Harry Potter
Auror Office
Heads: Theseus Scamander · Rufus Scrimgeour · Gawain Robards · Harry Potter
Mordecai Berrycloth · John Dawlish · Penelope Fawley · Dorian Fungbury · Timothy Hale · Alice Longbottom · Frank Longbottom · Neville Longbottom · Alastor Moody · Riya Patel · Proudfoot · Savage · Kingsley Shacklebolt · Nymphadora Tonks · Ronald Weasley · Williamson · Unidentified Aurors · Unidentified male Auror at Hogwarts · 3 Unidentified Aurors at Hogwarts · Director of the Investigation Department No. 61042
Improper Use of Magic Office
Heads: Travers · Dolores Umbridge
Mafalda Hopkirk · Honoria's fiancé · Mafalda Hopkirk's Ministerial Superior · Rufus Fudge · Orabella Nuttley · Chester Davies
Other Personnel
Leta Lestrange · Minerva McGonagall · Elphinstone Urquart · Alastor Gumboil · Arnold Peasegood · Arthur Weasley · Perkins · Cerberus Langarm · Hermione Granger · Bob Ogden · Tulip Karasu's mother · Tulip Karasu's father · Dempster Wiggleswade · Amelia Bones's assistant · Arthur Weasley's ten subordinates · Unidentified Hit Wizard · Unidentified Wizengamot clerk