"Are you a wizard or not?"
The title of this article is conjectural. Although it is based on canonical information, the actual name is a conjecture and may be supplanted at any time by additional information released from canonical sources. If this occurs, please move this page to the appropriate title.
Waitress at Luchino Caffe
Biographical information
Born
Before 1997
Blood status
Muggle[1]
Nationality
British[1]
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Female[1]
Affiliation
Occupation
Waitress[1]
Loyalty
Luchino Caffe[1]
[Source]
This waitress was a Muggle who worked as an employee at the Luchino Caffe on Tottenham Court Road, London.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearances
4 Notes and references
Biography
At the all night Luchino Caffe on Tottenham Court Road in London, she served two cappuccinos to Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley on the evening of 1 August, 1997. Harry Potter was also with them, but under his Invisibility Cloak. The waitress chewed gum as she worked and shot Ron a nasty look after overhearing him remark that her coffee was "revolting". She was then affronted when two more customers rudely waved her away when she shuffled over to take their order.[1]
These customers were, in fact, the Death Eaters Thorfinn Rowle, and Antonin Dolohov; they had tracked Harry, Ron, and Hermione down using the Taboo curse. A skirmish broke out in the café, and a Stunning Spell Harry was aiming at Dolohov struck the waitress, making her collapse near the door as she was attempting to flee in terror. Afterwards, Hermione wiped her memory of the event, and the effects of the Stunning Spell wore off once the trio had Disapparated.[1]
Behind the scenes
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, the waitress is portrayed by British actress Eva Alexander.[2]
In the film, Harry Potter does not use his Invisibility Cloak and as such the waitress also serves Harry a cappuccino. When the trio is attacked by Rowle and Dolohov, the waitress is not present and does not notice anything amiss as she is listening to music on a headset in the back room. When she comes out, she is shocked by the devastation, and is told by Hermione to "leave". The Memory Charm is not used on her.
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Notes and references
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Chapter 9 (A Place to Hide)
↑ Eva Alexander at the Internet Movie Database