"Point me!"
This article is about Beedle the Bard's character. You may be looking for wizards in general.
Wizard
Physical information
Species
Human[1]
Gender
Male[1]
Skin colour
Light[1]
Relationship information
Family members
Father[1]
[Source]
The wizard is the main character in Beedle the Bard's tale The Wizard and the Hopping Pot.[1]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 The Hopping Pot
1.3 Change as a character
2 Personality and traits
3 Relationships
3.1 Father
3.2 Muggle neighbours
4 Appearances
5 Notes and references
Biography
Early life
This wizard, unlike his father, felt those without magic were worthless. Upon his death, his father left him his "lucky one-legged cooking pot" with a slipper inside, instead of the gold he had been expecting. His father had wrote a note to his son, hoping that "he would never need the pot". The son was very angry at this and decided to use it as a rubbish bin.[1]
The Hopping Pot
As his father, a compassionate wizard, had helped out the local Muggles by using his "magic pot" to cure people's diseases, the villagers turned to his son for the same services. However, the son turned out to be a cold-hearted man who turned away anybody who sought his help. As such, the pot began sprouting manifestations of the forms of untreated diseases that villagers were suffering from. The pot also began to continuously hop on its foot, resulting in an endless clamour.[1]
Change as a character
The Wizard and the Pot walking away from the village
"The young wizard's conscience awakes and he agreed to use his magic for the benefit of his non-magical neighbours."
— Albus Dumbledore's notes.[src]
The son finally gave up in the end and ran through the town, crying out to the villagers to come see him to remedy their ailments. As he used his magic to heal them, the horrific manifestations on the pot begun to disappear. Finally, the pot was back to its former appearance and the son could slip the slipper onto the pot's foot. Once that was done, he and the pot walked away from the village to go and help other people.[1]
Personality and traits
Unlike his father, this wizard was a cold-hearted man who turned away anybody who sought his help. He felt that people who could not perform magic were worthless. He also did not care about his father's death, and was angry that his father did not leave him any money, showing him to have been extremely selfish and uncaring. In the end, however, he decided to help the people who needed his help.[1]
Relationships
Father
"In the fond hope, my son, that you will never need it."
— His father's note that was left in the Hopping Pot.[src]
The Wizard had a difficult relationship with his father as they had two different views of how things are. The son thought that those who could not do magic were worthless, a thought shared by wizard fanatics some years later when Muggle persecution of wizards and witches began.[1]
When his father only left him an old cooking pot and a slipper, he cursed his father's age-softened mind as he had expected gold. However, after he was given the taste of the Muggles' misery, his conscience awoke and he agreed to use his magic to help his Muggle neighbours as his father did before him.[1]
Muggle neighbours
"A kind old wizard decides to teach his son a lesson by giving him the taste of the local Muggles' misery. The young wizard's conscience awakes and he agreed to use his magic for the benefit of his non-magical neighbours."
— Albus Dumbledore's notes.[src]
The Wizard felt that muggles were worthless, and thus he refused to help them, when they asked him for help. Unlike his father, who was a good person who always helped people, the wizard turned away anybody who sought his help. In the end, the wizard was given a taste of the muggles' misery, and started to use his magic in order to help them.[1]
Appearances
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First mentioned)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (real) (First appearance)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Notes and references
↑
1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 1.11 The Tales of Beedle the Bard - "The Wizard and the Hopping Pot"
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
By Beedle the Bard
Stories
Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump · The Fountain of Fair Fortune · The Warlock's Hairy Heart · The Tale of the Three Brothers · The Wizard and the Hopping Pot
Characters
Altheda · Amata · Amata's lover · Antioch Peverell · Antioch Peverell's enemy · Antioch Peverell's killer · Asha · Babbitty · Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Cadmus Peverell · Cadmus Peverell's fiancée · Captain of the Brigade of Witch-Hunters · Charlatan · Death · Evil Sorcerer · Gigantic white worm · Ignotus Peverell · Ignotus Peverell's son · King · Kinsfolk · Maiden · Old man · Old man's donkey · Old man's family · Peasant woman · Peasant woman's granddaughter · Sabre · Sir Luckless · Warlock · Warlock's family · The Warlock's friends · Wizard · Wizard's father · Young woman · Young woman's child
Objects
Altheda's potion · Altheda's wand · Cloak of Invisibility · Creepers · Crystal casket · Elder Wand · Enchanted garden · Fountain · Gold statue of Babbitty · Hairy Heart · The Hopping Pot · Never-ending hill · Poisonous toadstool · Poultice for warts · Resurrection Stone · Silver chalice